## Vulnerability Surfacing

This work is generally complete. Each crate on crates.io now has a Security tab with any advisory information. There is [discussion](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/146229-wg-secure-code/topic/CVSS.20scores.20on.20crates.2Eio/with/573839688) on whether to add CVSS scores. And a blog post about the overall work has been drafted, and will be used as the Foundation's Alpha-Omega quarterly blog post.

## Capslock

This project continues to move towards the finish line for the 2025 grant. We are very close to releasing an initial version of cargo-vulncheck, a tool that (like the analogous govulncheck in the Go ecosystem) uses function-level vulnerability data and static analysis to provide fine-grained information for developers on what crate vulnerabilities they may be exposed to.

At this stage, we don’t anticipate merging this into the cargo-capslock tool as originally planned in the grant proposal; we think both Capslock and regular, security-conscious users will benefit more from these being separate (but obviously related) tools.

## Other Engineering

### TUF

A TUF repository for rust releases and toolchain components was created. In addition, POC work of integration into the `channel.toml` format of our toolchain was done.

### Rust/C++ Interop Problem Space Mapping

The Rust Foundation has a new contractor working on the Rust/C++ Interop Initiative, particularly the all-important problem space mapping [project goal](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/issues/388).

They have [hit the ground running](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/issues/388#issuecomment-3970777014) and has developed a framework for specifying interop problems and many examples of current problems.

### crates.io Svelte Implementation

Work continues on migrating crates.io from Ember to Svelte.

Authentication has been [implemented](https://github.com/rust-lang/crates.io/pull/12877), porting the Ember `session` service to Svelte 5 using `createContext` for dependency injection and `$state` runes for reactive state tracking.

The API token settings page has been [implemented](https://github.com/rust-lang/crates.io/pull/13063) as well, based on the corresponding implementation in the Ember.js crates.io app.

### Malicious Crates Targeting Polymarket

We spent a non-trivial amount of the month dealing with an ongoing series of malicious crates targeting the Polymarket developer ecosystem. A fairly motivated attacker has been attempting to typosquat packages in the dependency chain for the widely used Polymarket client crates, as well as those crates themselves, and has been attempting to exfiltrate keys and secrets using those.

These attacks have been relatively unsophisticated, and we have no evidence of actual exploitation, but dealing with this and implementing new ad hoc scanning approaches to detect these more effectively will likely continue to absorb our time in March.

As part of the Polymarket malicious crate incident, we spent time this month analyzing new indicators around published package behavior which can help us signal suspect users and packages on the repository.

(Our thanks to the crates.io team — especially Carol Nichols — Rust security response, and Rust secure code working groups for their continued support.)

### Malicious Crates Policy Update

There has been an update to the malicious crate notification policy.

The crates.io team will no longer publish a blog post each time a malicious crate is detected or reported. In the vast majority of cases to date, these notifications have involved crates that have no evidence of real world usage, and they feel that publishing these blog posts is generating noise, rather than signal.

They will always publish a [RustSec](https://rustsec.org/) advisory when a crate is removed for containing malware. Crates that contain malware and are seeing real usage or exploitation will still get both a blog post and a RustSec advisory.

### Reigning in Exploding Bandwidth Growth

We detected various attempts of abusing the crates-io API, which degrade the performance of the app and increase the amount of cloud credits required to keep it running.

We started experimenting with the Fastly WAF to enforce crates-io rate limits and block potential security threats. We are now evaluating the impact of this change to eventually applying it to 100% of the traffic.

## Community and Events

### DataDog Open Source Program

The Rust Foundation is now a [member](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/jeremylq_about-us-mission-leadership-board-the-activity-7432615945241636864--1YW) of the [DataDog Open Source Program](https://www.datadoghq.com/partner/open-source/), providing us an in-kind donation of an observability platform to monitor and act upon infrastructure events.