A lot of progress on crates.io vulnerability surfacing this month. Adam spoke on phishing and Capslock at FOSDEM. And there is going to be a suspicious crate alerting system forthcoming. And more...

## Vulnerability Surfacing

The vulnerability surfacing security tab [implementation](https://github.com/rust-lang/crates.io/pull/12311/) has been accepted, merged and is now live on crates.io. There are even [articles](https://socket.dev/blog/crates-security-tab-tightened-publishing-controls) written about it.

Work is in progress to [add](https://github.com/rust-lang/crates.io/pull/12820) CVSS score information to the security tab.

## Capslock

Adam is giving a [talk]((https://fosdem.org/2026/schedule/event/QGCFDA-using_capslock_analysis_to_develop_seccomp_filters_for_rust_and_other_services/) at FOSDEM 2026 entitled "Using Capslock Analysis to Develop Seccomp Filters for Rust (and Other) Services" which is centered around how capability analysis can be translated into least-privilege seccomp filters for containerized services, with lessons applicable well beyond Rust.

## Trusted Publishing

Trusted publishing is essentially complete with support for GitHub and GitLab. Possible future options could be for self-hosted GitLab support or support for Codeberg, and given the foundations are now solid, these could theoretically done by external contributors.

## Other Engineering

### TUF/Signing

Walter developed a nested merkle tree implementation for crates.io. He then worked to coordinate with Rust Project members for comparing merkle implementations with cargo resolver.

Historical re-signing of all rust binaries and components under way (all `rustc`, components, cargo, and platform binaries). This is re-hashing the raw binary artifacts and validating existing sha256 files are valid and using for TUF repository.

Finally, the TUF/Signing Rust Project Goal is soon to be resurrected.

### Suspicious crate alerting system

Adam is making progress on an initial version of an alerting system for suspicious crates. Hope to have something to show or demo soon.

### Fastly TLS Investigation

Adam researched whether we should add a third TLS configuration to Fastly that may have provided broader Cargo and operating system support, but with looser ciphers.

Any of the TLS configurations would basically be fine with cargo on current versions of Linux and Windows.

The wildcard was older Windows versions — Rust is not supported on versions of Windows less than 10, but obviously we may still need to support users of older versions on these older versions of Windows. A quick check with Windows 7 suggests that the `n.sni` configuration would fail, but the other two should work.

So the conclusion is that `k.sni` should be fine, and we could switch to `g.sni` if it turns out that there's some oddball configuration out there that requires the extra few TLS 1.2 ciphers.

### crates.io Rewrite Continues

Tobias continues to lead the development of rewriting crates.io using the Svelte framework. Adam is helping review the Svelte-based PRs.

## Community and Events

### FOSDEM 2026

Adam [spoke](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/rust-foundation_fosdem2026-fosdem2026-rustlang-activity-7422645292539482112-EGRy) at FOSDEM 2026. He delivered two talks, [one](https://fosdem.org/2026/schedule/event/GFA3RJ-a_phishy_case_study/) on diving deep into a real phishing incident targeting the Rust ecosystem and [another](https://fosdem.org/2026/schedule/event/QGCFDA-using_capslock_analysis_to_develop_seccomp_filters_for_rust_and_other_services/) using Capslock Analysis to develop Seccomp filters for Rust.

### crates.io Development Update

Tobias wrote a six month [update](https://blog.rust-lang.org/2026/01/21/crates-io-development-update/) for crates.io.

### Infrastructure Q4 2025 Recap and Q1 2026 Plan

Marco provided a [recap and plan](https://blog.rust-lang.org/inside-rust/2026/01/13/infrastructure-team-q4-2025-recap-and-q1-2026-plan/) for all things infrastructure.

### Welcome Ubiratan Soares

The Rust Foundation would like to welcome Ubiratan Soares, our new Infrastructure Engineer who will be working closely with Marco on Rust Project infra and other infrastructure things.