## AI Security Engineer in Residence

Through a generous grant from Alpha-Omega, the Rust Foundation is hiring a dedicated [AI Security Engineer in Residence](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/user_uploads/4715/fcIR0A1PRuv6kJsQ9-Sv8I-3/Rust-AI-Security-Engineer-in-Residence-Role-Description-1.pdf) for at least 6 months to focus on the increasing amount of security vulnerabilities being found in the Rust Ecosystem due to the advent of Mythos (via Glasswing). Interviews are complete and an offer is imminent. 

## Increasing Critical Infra Security

In cooperation with the Rust Project, the Rust Foundation is helping increase the security of our critical infrastructure. We have begin the [rollout](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/242791-t-infra/topic/MFA.20with.20hardware.20security.20keys.20for.20critical.20infra.20access/with/595043417) of mandatory hardware-based 2FA across many of our most pivotal systems.

## OpenSSF Ambassador

Walter Pearce is an [OpenSSF Amabassador](https://rustfoundation.org/media/congratulations-walter-pearce-openssf-ambassador/). Alongside 12 other security community leaders, Walter is being recognized for his advocacy and passion to make the world of open source software secure by default.

## Microsoft Software Supply Chain Workshop

Walter and Joel attended a software supply chain workshop at Microsoft. It was a small, practitioner-led session focused on how organizations establish trust in software and hardware supply chains, where current approaches break down, and what capabilities are most needed next. In addition, it showcased areas where Microsoft is leading efforts to help in this space. There is potential for us to use some of these tools in our security work. Stay tuned.

## Signing and Mirroring Update

Work continues on our efforts to have effective signing and official mirroring of Rust assets. We are beginning to document key provisioning procedures, including adding/removing root keys, handling lost Yubikeys, etc. We also need to script the initial key signing ceremony. We are experimenting with TUF-on-CI, utilizing infra running on GCP. We are deciding how the quorum is going to work, not that we are using hardware based 2FA (Yubikeys). Scaffolding is being added to `rust-tuf` to support this effort. There are questions whether the TUF specification as-is will be the right solution for the crates.io index.  

## crates.io sustainability

The Foundation has been for several months trying to come up with ways to support crates.io sustainability. We have landed on a set of enterprise-ish potential possibilities that are described in this document. We have reviewed these ideas with the Rust Project and have a general consensus that they are worth at least researching and potentially implementing. The next step is bring these ideas to the sustaining package registries working group and figure out how to get something actionable done here.

## GitHub Secrets Scanning

[Github Secrets scanning](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/concepts/secret-security/about-secret-scanning) is now enabled for the Rust language [GitHub organization](https://github.com/rust-lang). We have [confirmed](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/242791-t-infra/topic/Github.20secret.20scanning.20for.20r-l.20repos/with/590730000) that there have not been any critical leaks.

## Trusted Publishing Documentation

We [documented](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-forge/pull/1054) Rust Project repositories can use trusted publishing to publish Rust Project crates using trusted publishing. In addition, we documented the process that Rust Project members need to follow and the various approaches that we used so far in the project that other repositories can take inspiration from.

## Glasswing Efforts

The team continues to examine output from Mythos runs across the Rust ecosystem, enabled by Project Glasswing. For example, Mythos found that there was an insecure token generator for email confirmations coming from crates.io - that has since been fixed.

We are now looking at ways to enable the maintainers of popular crates to opt in for scans on the understanding that they will get raw reports straight from the LLM, but with the ability to work with the security initiative team if they require assistance or advice.

## crates.io development

There has been security-related crates.io work lately. On the trusted publishing side, [aligning](https://github.com/rust-lang/crates.io/pull/13577) JTI lifetime with JWT validation leeway. As mentioned above in the Glasswing update, there was an insecure token generator. To help alleviate that, `pgcrypto` is being [used](https://github.com/rust-lang/crates.io/pull/13656) for `random_string()` randomness. 

Also, the `rust-toolchain` manager was finally [merged](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/pull/38554) into Renovate. 

## Typomania Usage

Typomania, which checks for potential squatting in crates.io (and potentially other ecosystems), is being used [outside](https://github.com/zizmorcore/zizmor/pull/1985) the Rust Foundation - by [Zizmor](https://github.com/zizmorcore/zizmor).

## Ecosystem Visibility

Thanks to the generous donation by DataDog bringing the Rust Foundation in as part of their [open source program](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/jeremylq_about-us-mission-leadership-board-the-share-7432615944146812928-SzkY/), we now ingest and maintain all logs across our infrastructure. This allows us to do much more insightful analytics and investigations. Significant work has been done around more detailed observability regarding malware, malicious users, threat hunting, and long lived metrics as well. Additional work has been done for insights around crates.io to inform sustainability efforts.
