# Rust for Linux

Please find below our May 2025 update for Internet Security Research Group (ISRG)’s Prossimo “Rust for Linux” project.

**About the project:**

Our goal for the [Rust for Linux](https://rust-for-linux.com/) project is to add support for the memory safe Rust language to the Linux kernel, in order to improve the security and reliability of billions of devices and computer systems that use the Linux kernel around the world. Rust was merged into the open source Linux kernel in late 2022, which was a key milestone towards that goal. Thanks to support from Alpha-Omega, ISRG is working with the primary maintainer of Rust for Linux, Miguel Ojeda, to continue to improve the support for Rust in the Linux kernel so that the first major Rust production drivers can be merged upstream.

**May 2025 Highlights:**

The regular Rust PR for the Linux v6.16 kernel cycle has been prepared and is about to be sent to Linus Torvalds. For the Linux v6.15 kernel cycle, a second Rust fixes PR [1] was prepared, sent and merged. The regular Rust PRs sent each kernel cycle (as well as the “fixes” PRs), represent the combined work from a multitude of developers and several major companies that adds and maintains the required features (such as Rust abstractions for kernel C APIs) that the first major Rust production drivers need.

The highlight this month has been the RustWeek conference [2], including the Unconference [3] and the All-Hands [4]. In the conference, Rust for Linux was a talk in the main track [5]. For the Unconference, Google sponsored a Rust for Linux room. For the All-Hands (an invitation-only event for Rust Project team members), the members of the Rust for Linux team were invited as guests, and there was a scheduled session about Rust for Linux (having been the most voted topic during scheduling). In addition, topics related to Rust for Linux were also discussed in other slots specific to particular Rust teams (e.g. compiler, rustdoc tracks) as well as in the “hallway track”. RustWeek has arguably been the main Rust event of 2025, given its length and the fact that it contained several key events, including the first All-Hands in six years and the “10 years of Rust” celebration. Like other major conferences, they are great opportunities for the Rust for Linux project to gain visibility and thus eventually support from new contributors and companies. In the case of the All-Hands, being able to participate in an event where Rust maintainers meet allows Rust for Linux to discuss face-to-face and make progress on the features required by the Linux kernel [6].


**May 2025 Additional Work Undertaken:**

Beyond what is highlighted above, we continued work toward the below, all aimed at improving the support for Rust in the Linux kernel so that the first major Rust production drivers can be merged upstream.

We continued maintenance of the development branch by applying/reviewing/testing patches, solving conflicts with other subsystems, reproducing issues, and maintaining the CIs. 

As part of our work maintaining Rust support in the stable kernels, we backported Rust fixes when required and tested the branches with Rust enabled.

We performed other subsystem maintenance, including reporting issues to other projects and maintaining the ["live lists"](https://github.com/Rust-for-Linux/linux/issues/2), which track bugfixes, wanted features, and unstable features from other projects.

We furthered technical development of Rust in the Linux kernel via continued development of the new build system.

We performed Rust for Linux core team management via maintenance of the internal spreadsheets of the team (that track the status of all patch series, PRs, versioning, etc.), organizing and leading the core team weekly meetings, and keeping track of news relevant for the team.

We supported building the Rust Community by writing new content and keeping the [Rust for Linux webpage](https://rust-for-linux.com) up to date, guiding new contributors, and spending time organizing the Rust for Linux [Kangrejos](https://kangrejos.com) conference.


