# Rust for Linux

Please find below our April 2025 update for Internet Security Research Group (ISRG)’s Prossimo “Rust for Linux” project.

**About the project:**

Our goal for the [Rust for Linux](https://rust-for-linux.com/) project is to add support for the memory safe Rust language to the Linux kernel, in order to improve the security and reliability of billions of devices and computer systems that use the Linux kernel around the world. Rust was merged into the open source Linux kernel in late 2022, which was a key milestone towards that goal. Thanks to support from Alpha-Omega, ISRG is working with the primary maintainer of Rust for Linux, Miguel Ojeda, to continue to improve the support for Rust in the Linux kernel so that the first major Rust production drivers can be merged upstream.

**April 2025 Highlights:**

The regular Rust PR for the Linux v6.15 kernel cycle landed in mainline [1]. In addition, the first Rust fixes PR for v6.15 was prepared, sent and merged [2]. The regular Rust PRs sent each kernel cycle (as well as the “fixes” PRs), represent the combined work from a multitude of developers and several major companies that adds and maintains the required features (such as Rust abstractions for kernel C APIs) that the first major Rust production drivers need.

The Rust “subsystem” is continuing to grow its maintainers and their associated trees. For v6.16, it is likely we will have three new trees sending PRs to the main Rust subsystem with two new maintainers involved. The Rust “subsystem” and the Rust for Linux mailing list are growing and receiving an increasing number of contributions per unit of time. Since the beginning of the Rust for Linux project, we have tried to get kernel maintainers involved, since otherwise the work would not scale. However, even then, there is a lot of work that needs to be done within the Rust “subsystem”, especially given the recent discussions around the Rust kernel policy. Therefore, by having sub-maintainers that can take responsibility for certain subsets, it means the work within our own subsystem can scale as well. It is also a good way for team members to grow and get experience being maintainers themselves.

Support for Rust is getting added to the tc-build project. [3] The tc-build project is one of a number of kernel-related projects that are important in the day-to-day work of developers. The tc-build project is used by some kernel developers to help them build and install toolchains in order to test kernel changes that require “bleeding edge” compilers. Being able to build combined LLVM and Rust toolchains allows them to test such changes with Rust-enabled kernels too. In particular, in this case, it will help test the new x86 FineIBT-BHI patches.

[1] https://lore.kernel.org/rust-for-linux/20250330170535.546869-1-ojeda@kernel.org/
[2] https://lore.kernel.org/rust-for-linux/20250419103443.3004008-1-ojeda@kernel.org/
[3] https://github.com/ClangBuiltLinux/tc-build/pull/299


**April 2025 Additional Work Undertaken:**

Beyond what is highlighted above, we continued work toward the below, all aimed at improving the support for Rust in the Linux kernel so that the first major Rust production drivers can be merged upstream.

- We continued maintenance of the development branch by applying/reviewing/testing patches, reproducing issues, and maintaining the CIs. 

- As part of our work maintaining Rust support in the stable kernels, we backported Rust fixes when required and tested the branches with Rust enabled.

- We performed other subsystem maintenance, including reporting issues to other projects and maintaining the ["live lists"](https://github.com/Rust-for-Linux/linux/issues/2), which track bugfixes, wanted features, and unstable features from other projects.

- We furthered technical development of Rust in the Linux kernel via continued development of the new build system.

- We performed Rust for Linux core team management via maintenance of the internal spreadsheets of the team (that track the status of all patch series, PRs, versioning, etc.), organizing and leading the core team weekly meetings, and keeping track of news relevant for the team.

- We supported building the Rust Community by writing new content and keeping the [Rust for Linux webpage](https://rust-for-linux.com) up to date, maintaining relationships with other projects, guiding new contributors, and spending time organizing the Rust for Linux [Kangrejos](https://kangrejos.com) conference.
