## Update 2022-12

### 1) End-User Risk Audit Research

The OpenJS Foundation recently engaged the IDC research team who will conduct an end-user risk audit. The goal of this audit will be to identify potential security risks and pain points for end users, as well as to understand the triggers and factors that influence the adoption of new software versions.

The IDC research team consisted of experts in the open source software (OSS) ecosystem, DevSecOps, and software development. Specifically, the team includes Al Gillen, Jim Mercer, and Katie Norton.

Through this audit, we  will gather valuable insights into the end-user experience with regards to security and software adoption. The research will be conducted across the US, Canada, United Kingdom, Germany, and France; with translations in German and French.
The Ecosystem Risk Audit research will inform a subsequent Web Modernization public-facing communications campaign to help reduce the risk among authors and end users.


### 2) Infrastructure & Security Updates

#### 2.1) Puppet Infrastructure

New server puppet-03.ops has been brought online, with the latest stable Debian Linux. Its cost has been reduced compared to its predecessor, from $48/mo to $24/mo.

The puppet server controls the provisioning of other servers and plays a central role. All new servers part of this project are being provisioned in public at https://github.com/jquery/infrastructure-puppet. Previously, the project's server provisioning was largely kept private due to secret tokens being mixed in with infrastructure code.

##### 2.1.1) Security improvements

Migrated from Puppet 3, released in 2016, to latest Puppet 7. Server provisions were rewritten from scratch with latest best practices and few dependencies to minimize exposure. The base profile for new all new servers going forward includes tighter firewalls.

##### 2.1.2) Local development hiccup

In addition to a staging environment, we use GitHub Inc's octocatalog-diff tool. This lets the project's sysadmins, as well as any other contributors, locally compile changes to an existing server prior to deployment, thus speeding up the development cycle through detailed previews of what changes to existing servers would look like.

We identified an issue where octocatalog-diff would crash Puppet 7.

[Issue: Modifying existing resources crashes with Puppet 7 #261](https://github.com/github/octocatalog-diff/issues/261)

A potential fix has been proposed for the issue with octocatalog-diff. It is recommended that the proposed patch be reviewed by someone with expertise in Ruby to ensure its correctness and appropriateness.

#### 2.2) Grunt infrastructure

The new servers gruntjs-02.stage and gruntjs-02.ops are both online and fully provisioned with the latest Debian Linux. These servers are now available for use and are functioning.

##### 2.2.1) Traffic switch

On Tuesday 2022-12-13, traffic to stage.gruntjs.com was switched. The following day 2022-12-14, traffic to https://gruntjs.com/, https://www.gruntjs.com/, and https://cdn.gruntjs.com/ was also switched.

This traffic switch was important in order to redirect users to the updated and improved version of the website. The switch to the various domains ensures that all users are able to access the updated site.

##### 2.2.2) Old droplets ready for decommission

The "gruntjs" droplets that were created in 2016 are now ready to be decommissioned. Decommissioning these droplets is necessary because they pose a security risk. The new infrastructure is in place and these VMs are no longer needed and would otherwise spend more of our infrastructure quota.

##### 2.2.3) Security improvements

The new servers have been implemented with several security measures, compared to the old droplets. Access logs are no longer kept on-server, traffic between CDN and origin server is now always encrypted, Linux upgraded from Debian 7 (end-of-life as of 2018) to Debian 11 LTS, and Node.js upgraded from v10 to v12. TLS 1.3 has also been enabled at the CDN edge, for improved security and performance. These updates ensure that the project's website remains secure and running efficiently.

It was [identified](https://github.com/gruntjs/gruntjs.com/issues/221
) that the gruntjs website relies on the presence of dev-dependencies on the server. It is recommended that the appropriate package be moved to the list of service dependencies instead, allowing the server to be provisioned using "npm --production" as is best practice to limit exposure of additional packages and their potential vulnerabilities and compromise.

#### 2.3) Contentorigin migration and upgrade

The Contentorigin service hosts legacy static assets, including the jQuery Podcast. Its server is being migrated from a $48/mo to a $24/mo droplet. This migration will bring the Contentorigin in line with the upgrades and improvements made to codeorigin and gruntjscom.

After the migration is complete, the Contentorigin will receive the same upgrades and improvements as codeorigin and gruntjscom. This will ensure that all systems are running on the most up-to-date infrastructure and are efficient and secure.

A switchover from StackPath is also planned for the Contentorigin. This switchover will be completed as a TODO item.

#### 2.4) Update on CLA Infrastructure

As part of our ongoing efforts to maintain the security and efficiency of our infrastructure, we have made the following changes to our CLA (Contributor License Agreement) systems:

The "cla-01.ops.jquery.net" and "jsf-cla-assistant" droplets have been shut down and are no longer publicly running as a web service. These virtual machines (VMs) have been stored in a suspended state at DigitalOcean for future data extraction.

The "cla-01.stage.jquery.net" droplet has been deleted.



