# Update 2024-08

## Organizations

For various reasons across our team, August saw a slow down of progress that has delayed our expected release dates by about 1 month.
Development is picking up again and we're looking forward to shipping the Organizations feature.

### Maintainer Role

* Colby implemented the maintainer role. Sam has code reviewed and we should have it ready to roll out soon.
* Once ready, it will become available to everyone on rubygems.org, unlocking some level of control for owners on a gem-by-gem basis.
* The maintainer role will allow us to reduce the impact of Organizations, easing some of the immediate demand by reducing the need for single gem organizations.

### Organizations

* Colby has taken over the Organization & Membership modeling, defining the ownership structure when an Organization owns a Rubygem.
* Ian's designs are mostly complete, covering all the expected pages and the onboarding path for Organizations.

### Next steps:

* Merge and release maintainer role and respond to any feedback.
* Implement the designs as new pages on rubygems.org.
* Start adding test users once the permission system and organization pages are ready.

## Audit

The Audit is about 2/3rds done and going well.

* Trail of Bits (Tob) is about 2 weeks into the audit as of the end of the month.
* The onboarding went smoothly. ToB got to work quickly and has been communicating well.
* A few concerns were brought to our attention immediately and fixes rolled out. So far, we've only seen minor things that have been easy to fix.
* Infrastructure review is in progress.

### Next steps:

* One more week of review, then we will await the final report.
* We will immediately implement fixes any problems that warrant immediate attention.
