# Update 2024-07

## Organizations

July was an active month for us on the organization project.
Unfortunately, we had multiple sicknesses during the month and also vacations.
This slowed each of us from making as much progress as we otherwise felt we could have. C'est la vie.

### Maintainer Role

* Colby researched access control systems in other ruby projects and was inspired by GitLab (another open source Rails app).
* He defined a new system for setting permissions levels that will define each permission level using a number.
* The new system will allow us to continue using the existing ownership model with a quick SQL query lookup (i.e. `where level >= 60`) to ensure the required permission level is met.
* Progress on adding the Maintainer role helps us provide some of the needed organization level features for singular gems that don't need the added complexity of an organization.

### Organizations

* André defined and built the Organization & Membership models, defined their relations, and added administrative views for all of the models.
* The models are now merged into RubyGems.org, allowing other engineers to be aware of and collaborate on the models whenever their work may overlap.
* In the meantime, Ian has refined the designs for our onboarding process for new users.
* We settled on a process that will allow people to use the name of a gem they own as the name of their organization.
* Allocating org names only by owned gem names will prevent the landrush that PyPI experienced and warned us about.
* RubyGems.org has been around long enough that most of the desireable gem names are taken. We believe that granting ownership of the same-named org will be a natural progression for most users.

### Authorization

* Martin continued to work on finding and streamlining places where authorization checks are currently made in the application.
* Previously, almost all authorization checks did some version of (with varying formats): `if rubygem.owned_by?(user)`.
* We have made significant progress turning these into more descriptive checks: `if policy(rubygem).add_owner?`.
* This change allows us to define different levels and specific membership requirements for each policy in a shared policy class for each object in the system.
* Already this has paid dividends, allowing Colby to quickly redefine `add_owner?` to require that you have a level matching at least "gem owner".

### Next steps:

* Finalize design and begin to implement the onboarding interface.
* Roll out maintainer role
* Add permissions levels to organization memberships
* Maybe near the end of the month, add ourselves as test users on a rubygems org, then hopefully role to a few beta users.

## Audit

* Trail of Bits (ToB) proposed a timeline for the audit from August 19 to September 6th.
* We continue to communicate and prepare for the audit and will meet with them early August to start transferring documentation and preparing their engineers.
* In the meantime, we wrapped up most of the pending security work related to MFA and sign-in in an attempt get ahead of call-outs we read in other ToB audits.

### Next steps:

* We look forward to starting the audit.
