# Eclipse Foundation for January 2023

## Security Audits

The initial meetings for the three security audits that were announced last month are being organized and scheduled.

## Hiring

We continue building capacity by hiring a Software Engineer to the team. They will work on SLSA attestation generation and GitHub management tooling. We're also in talks with an Open Source Software Engineer to enhance the security of our projects' supply chain and a SecOps professional to improve the security of our infrastructure and introduce new tools and services, such as a self-hosted sigstore.

## Rework of the CVE process

We have started gathering feedback from projects about Eclipse's security processes. We are performing interviews with committers and project leads, starting with projects selected for the audit or having a recent security vulnerability. We have contacted six projects, conducted four interviews, and gathered helpful feedback. We scheduled more interviews for February.

## GitHub organizations and repositories management

We have re-started the work on a custom tool to enforce and create security related configurations of organizations and their associated repositories on GitHub.
What is currently supported:
 * descriptive definition of required organization settings / webhooks, repositories and associated branch protection rules
 * mechanism to fetch the current configuration from an organization hosted on GitHub
 * verification on how the required configuration differs from the current live configuration hosted on GitHub
 * update mechanism to enforce the required configuration on GitHub

The source is currently available at https://gitlab.eclipse.org/eclipsefdn/security/otterdog/-/tree/python