# April 2026

## Hiring Security Engineer

We have a finalist that passed our interview loop.  He’s also going to work on the AI scanning efforts so he’ll be splitting time between the Glasswing efforts and our security engineering roadmap.  We are just finalizing his engagement as I write this update.  

## Private Beta for Organizations

Due to my trip to RubyKaigi and focus on the AI scanning work, work on the private beta was put on hold.  I added one new organization in early April.  We’re at 10 active organizations with 13 in the queue.  My observation is that nearly all of the 13 organizations in the queue have stalled so I’ll want to resolve that in the coming weeks.  

## Infrastructure Security

Nothing to report for this month.

## Project Glasswing

Though this hasn’t started as an official engagement, Colby and I began putting the program together.  We started brainstorming on potential projects to support the Alpha-Omega OKRs, aside from the Security Engineer in Residence engagement.  I assembled a job description for these security engineers to use in recruiting engineers.  Finally, we identified those who should get access from our team, Ruby Core and Rails Core.  We settled on 10 people for now. 5 from RubyGems, including 2 newly recruited Rubyists, 4 from Ruby Core, and 1 from Rails Security.  We anticipate that more will join the effort, especially from our top Ruby companies through an in-kind engagement.  

Colby got an early start on scanning using Opus while we waited for Mythos access.  It resulted in finding a security issue in Nokogiri, a top Ruby gem.  He wrote [a blog post](https://blog.rubygems.org/2026/04/29/scaling-rubys-defenses-with-ai.html) discussing the work so far.

## RubyKaigi

The RubyGems team traveled to Japan for RubyKaigi. It was a successful conference in multiple ways.  We started off by having an in-person RubyGems team workshop for 2 hours the day before the conference. We covered coordination of our [public roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/rubygems/projects/21/views/1), compact index improvements, native extension build farms, security threat modeling, and RubyGems/Bundler unification plan.  It was impactful to have the entire team in person, which can only happen at RubyKaigi.

The other hot topic was Project Glasswing.  The initiative generated significant interest across our conversation at the conference.  We achieved one of my goals in finding a few trusted Rubyists to work with us on this project.  

The most significant outcome was a verbal agreement to form a partnership with the Ruby Association to recruit Japanese company as sponsors to build worldwide support for [RubyGems.org](http://rubygems.org).  To our surprise, Matz publicly endorsed the partnership in his closing keynote.  This should be a major step towards sustainability for the package registry.
