# Update 2026-01

## Hiring Security Engineer

We started reviewing job applicants for the Senior Security Engineer position.  We’ve reviewed 107 applicants, interviewing 2 of them.  So far the applicant pool has been weak.  We attribute this to the unresolved situation around the rubygems repositories. Once that is resolved, which appears close, then we’ll leverage referrals and LinkedIn sourcing to bring in higher quality applicants.  In the meantime, we are completing security work with our current team.

## Package Repository Security

We finished the integration with [Have I Been Pwned](https://haveibeenpwned.com/) for leaked passwords.  This completes a level 2 item under Authentication. We already checked passwords at registration and prevented users from registering with known leaked credentials.  We now detect on login and prompt existing users to change their leaked password.

We discovered and addressed a zip bombs attack vector in [RubyGems.org](http://RubyGems.org).  When we "validate" a gem on RubyGems.org, it will end up [unzipping the data.tar.gz file](https://github.com/ruby/rubygems/blob/f22a1a99fddacf9c09659d1aa36e2267128e99e9/lib/rubygems/package.rb#L682-L684). While we have upload file size limits on .gem files, [there is no limit on the amount of data we unzip](https://github.com/ruby/rubygems/blob/f22a1a99fddacf9c09659d1aa36e2267128e99e9/lib/rubygems/package.rb#L715-L722). This means an attacker could upload highly compressed gem files that will take a very very long time to "verify", possibly leading to a denial of service.  This fix adds a new GemValidator library that validates gem packages during upload. The validator checks package structure, checksums, signatures, and enforces a strict schema for gemspec YAML files to ensure uploaded gems are well-formed and safe.

## Private Beta for Organizations

January saw the launch of the private beta for organizations. Establishing paid tiers for Organizations is our key project to generate sustainable revenue for the service.  The private beta will give us a chance to gauge interest from our community and have conversations about business value before finalizing pricing.

We onboarded Shopify as our second organization and Zendesk is expected to complete onboarding in the next two weeks.  We invited four other companies to the beta.  All of these expressed interest through our customer service platform in 2025.

We developed onboarding materials and a [signup form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScDimnhTz7u0o6kpFJEmvu6Dn-IJz5kXaW1vu5sV5qxVzoAkQ/viewform?usp=dialog) to handle a large volume of private beta interest.  We’ll have a public announcement in our monthly newsletter at the end of January.  The objective is to onboarding another 10-20 organizations.

All of this is in service of having customer discovery conversations with a mix of companies to determine what the pricing model should be.  For the time being, we’ll delay building billing functionality and handle the higher paid tiers through our current sponsorship program.  This will allow us to receive funding support from our most interested beta customers.  When we're ready for GA then we'll build in traditional saas subscription billing.

## Infrastructure Security

### AWS Security Audit
Received a comprehensive AWS security audit from [Cloud Security Partners](https://www.cloudsecuritypartners.com/) on Jan 22.  The team met with them to discuss their findings. The TL;DR is that there aren't any critical issues we need to address immediately, but there were many solid recommendations for strengthening our security posture going forward. Next steps will be to catalog these findings and add them to our Security Audit Project Board in February.

### Establishing response and resolution times

On January 15th, we had our first incident since we restructured on-call.  It was a sev-2 that led to a degradation of service for 7 minutes.  We experienced a 3-4x spike in traffic to the OpenSearch cluster, triggered by malformed search queries—-primarily from suspected bot traffic—-that were passed directly to OpenSearch without validation or sanitization.

The most interesting aspect of this was exercising our new incident response procedures.  All in all, the team was pleased with our response.  We noted and addressed several improvements for on-call.  You can read the details in our [Postmortem Incident Report](rubygems-IR-2026-01.pdf).

Additionally, we now have a data point to use in establishing our base response and resolution times. 

