# Update 2026-02

## Hiring Security Engineer

We had 17 candidates apply in February with none of them qualified for the role. We had 2 candidates from January go through the hiring manager interview, but both did not progress on.  Until the board resolves the situation from last year, we do not expect to see good candidates.

## Package Repository Security

### Compromised Password Protection

Continuing our work from January, we’re in the final stages of the production release for our [Have I Been Pwned](https://haveibeenpwned.com/) integration.  [Rubygems.org](http://rubygems.org) will now validate user passwords against the HIBP database at login. If a compromised password is detected, the user will be shown an informational dialog explaining the issue and automatically sent a link to reset their password, after which they can continue as normal.

### Zip Bomb Attack Mitigation

We shipped to production the enhancement to protect against zip bomb attacks. Previously, when a gem was published to RubyGems.org, its metadata was unpacked and interpreted into a Ruby object for validation. This approach carries a risk of exploitation, as a crafted malicious gem could be used to carry out a denial-of-service (DoS) attack against the gem push process. This month, we merged new validation rules that allow us to detect these gems much earlier, without needing to parse the gem metadata.

### RegEx DoS Mitigation

We enabled a newly released Ruby option that protects RubyGems.org against ReDoS (Regular Expression Denial of Service) attacks.

### Fixed Verifications of Attestations

Due to a change with Sigstore back in October, a large number (\~3000) of attestations in Rubygems.org were not structured in a way that the [sigstore cosign](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign) tool was able to verify the attestation payload. To be clear, the attestations are cryptographically correct, but the format in which we were storing them previously was not correct.  We corrected these attestations through a maintenance task.

## Private Beta for Organizations

February was filled with good progress towards validations the Organizations feature as a potential source of revenue.  Following our January newsletter announcement of the private beta, we published a [durable version](https://blog.rubygems.org/2026/02/16/organizations-beta.html) on the RubyGems blog.  This drove additional interest in the feature.

We made excellent progress towards our goal of 10 or more organizations onboarded.  We now have 6 active, with 5 in the onboarding queue.  It’s a good mix of organizations represented as well.  We have 3 Enterprise, 4 SMB, and 4 Community orgs.  

We proactively reached out to several SDK publishers to gauge interest.  We expect that will help us get closer to the stretch goal of 20 organizations.  Two of them declined to participate as they use a single service account for publishing so the draw of managing many users was not sufficient.  

We held 6 onboarding sessions this month where we collected customer feedback.  Good feedback with a mix of value for paid offerings. One organization publishes open source libraries not tied to an SDK.  They shared that the Organization’s feature wasn’t worth paying for in the current form as it doesn’t add enough value over the free version. 

## Infrastructure Security

No notable progress with Infrastructure Security.  We did have two incidents in February, which were handled well.  On 2/10, DNSimple had a DNS outage that impacted customers' ability to connect to our service, even though our service was unaffected.  Read more in the [IR-3 postmortem](rubygems-IR-3-2026-02-10.pdf).  On 2/12, a configuration change with our OpenSearch service led to empty search results for many users.  Read more in the [IR-4 postmortem](rubygems-IR-4-2026-02-12.pdf).  This continues to validate our improvements around operational fitness and continues to collect data points for establishing response and resolution times.