FreeBSD is undertaking one main project -- a code audit of two significant
subsystems (the Bhyve hypervisor, and the Capsicum sandboxing framework) -- and
two minor ones (an MFA pilot and an initial process audit).

## Update summary

The code audits are progressing to plan and producing useful insights into
areas for improvement. Bhyve code audit is complete, and Capsicum code audit is
underway.

To support the smooth running of the program, the FreeBSD Foundation has
appointed a Program Manager, Alice Sowerby, to oversee the program and its
projects. Alice is an experienced operational leader, active in the open source
space with several LF projects (TODO Group, CHAOSS, OpenChain) and has
previously held leadership roles at Equinix, Packet, and DDN, as well as
consulting for early-stage startups in the container and MLOps spaces. You can
reach Alice at <alice@freebsdfoundation.org>.

## Code Audit

The code audit is intended to discover vulnerabilities in these systems to
redress, but will also look to identify classes of vulnerabilities and/or
suboptimal coding practices that we can look for across the project and
incorporate learnings from into our Committer training and onboarding.

The FreeBSD Foundation has appointed a code audit firm, Synacktiv, who began
the audit at the start of June.

### Bhyve Hypervisor

#### Audit information

Audit start date: 	2024-06-01  
Audit end date: 	2024-06-24  
Code version:		Branch = FreeBSD main (development) branch on 2024-06-05,  
                    Commit = `56b822a17cde5940909633c50623d463191a7852`

The code audit is finished. A significant number of vulnerabilities have been
found across a number of attack surfaces, some of which might result in VM
escape. Some patterns in the code security gaps are already observable and will
be addressed as classes of vulnerabilities in our updated committer training
and onboarding.

### Capsicum Sandboxing Framework

#### Audit information

Audit start date: 	2024-07-01  
Audit end date: 	2024-07-31  
Code version:		Branch = FreeBSD main (development) branch on 2024-06-05,  
                    Commit = `56b822a17cde5940909633c50623d463191a7852`

The code audit has started recently. We do not yet have any results.

## Process Audit

The process audit is in the initiation phase.


## MFA Pilot

The MFA pilot is in the initiation phase. No updates from last month’s report.
