# Update 2025-07

## Security Developer-in-Residence (Seth Larson)

Majority of Seth's time in July was spent triaging, testing, and developing patches for PSRT vulnerability reports.

### Open Source Security work isn't 'Special'

* Published blog post with the content of the OpenSSF Community Day NA keynote
  of the same title: <https://sethmlarson.dev/security-work-isnt-special>
* Attended the OpenSSF Vulnerability Disclosures WG to discuss this topic.
  The WG may develop a "concise guide" about how to balance security
  and sustainability, especially for smaller projects.
  <https://github.com/ossf/wg-vulnerability-disclosures/issues/167>

### Other items

* Completed, edited, and submitted Alpha-Omega case study (SBOMs for Python packages).
  The case study is ready to be published to the Python Software Foundation blog once publicized by Alpha-Omega.
* Published CVE-2025-8194 for a vulnerability in CPython "tarfile" module.
  * Patched PyPI once the vulnerability report was made public: <https://github.com/pypi/warehouse/pull/18428>
  * Backported to all Python versions.
* Published new version of Truststore to support Fedora's new certificate store location.
* Met with the newly announced Python Release Manager "Savannah Bailey". Will prepare
  her expected Sigstore OIDC identity once she's allocated an `@python.org` email address.
  Added her to the Python Security Response Team and mailing list.
* Small amount of follow-up work around NSF grant proposal.

## PyPI Safety & Security Engineer (Mike Fiedler)

### Malware Response

Mike handled over 180 inbound reports of malware in July -
approximately 50% increase in volume over June.

After discovering a malware campaign that appeared to be using randomized email accounts from a provider,
Mike [blocked that provider](https://blog.pypi.org/posts/2025-06-15-prohibiting-inbox-ru-emails/)
from being able to register new accounts on PyPI.
After blocking, the provider reached out and confirmed an internal team they had performed this attack,
and the [block was lifted](https://blog.pypi.org/posts/2025-07-25-inbox-ru-follow-up/).

Mike handled a [phishing campaign attack against PyPI account owners](https://blog.pypi.org/posts/2025-07-28-pypi-phishing-attack/),
where a malicious actor attempted to trick users into logging into a proxy server
in front of PyPI to capture their credentials.
A single project's uploads were compromised, and the project was removed from PyPI,
and [an advisory was published](https://osv.dev/vulnerability/PYSEC-2025-72).
Mike wrote up a [deep dive incident report](https://blog.pypi.org/posts/2025-07-31-incident-report-phishing-attack/).

### Community Engagement

Mike participated in Alpha-Omega conversations on Threat Modeling

Mike spoke at AWS Summit NY - "Increasing Security of Your Python Open Source Supply Chain​",
sharing some of his unique perspectives of common attacks folks perform on PyPI,
and a few ideas on how end-users can protect themselves.

### Other Important Items

Mike discovered a failure in project description indexing,
causing the search index to fail and return no results to users.
Mike discovered that some descriptions exceed the network request capability,
resulting in incomplete indexing and search failures.
Mike shipped a fix, restoring search functionality to PyPI.

Mike worked on some quality-of-life improvements to the PyPI development,
such as quieting unactionable warnings in the development environment,
and ensuring the database consistency checks continue to run in CI.
A new checker for template paths was added, previously unexercised in most tests.
This enabled merging a small performance improvement to the PyPI web application,
and reduced false-positive error alerts.

Mike added an email address confirmation dialog to the registration flow,
in an attempt to lessen the PyPI support load for
folks who register with a misspelled email address,
and get stuck in a registration loop.
