# Update 2025-04

## Security Developer-in-Residence (Seth Larson)

### SBOMs for Python packages

PEP 770 was **[accepted on April 11th by Brett Cannon](https://discuss.python.org/t/pep-770-improving-measurability-of-python-packages-with-software-bill-of-materials/76308/112)**, this means
that tools can begin implementing the PEP and that the proposal
can be moved to being a packaging standard. Seth created a pull
request [adding the standard to the specifications section](https://github.com/pypa/packaging.python.org/pull/1853) of packaging.python.org.

Seth created a [pull request](https://github.com/pypa/auditwheel/pull/577) which adds support for generating SBOM documents
for libraries that are bundled into wheels. A [tracking issue was created for Maturin](https://github.com/PyO3/maturin/issues/2554) (Rust)
so that the cryptography (and other) libraries that compile and bundle Rust libraries.

This topic is the subject of two upcoming talks, one at PyCon US and one at Open Source Summit.

### NSF Safe-OSE Grant Submission

Seth and Loren completed the submission for the NSF Safe-OSE grant on April 22nd.
The next update will come in approximately six months if we hear back that we've
been selected.

### PyCon US 2025

Seth published a [collection of security-related events](https://sethmlarson.dev/pycon-us-2025-security-mini-summit) to his blog,
including details on the security mini summit, "meet the experts",
and security talks.

Seth was also invited to join the AWS Keynote Sponsor slot with Alpha-Omega
and Michael Winser. Seth prepared a few minutes of talking about the importance
of conferences like PyCon US for ecosystem security.

Seth is working on presentations for multiple talks:

* Alpha-Omega Sponsored Talk slot with Michael Winser and Mike Fiedler
* Phantom Dependencies: is your requirements.txt haunted?
* Update on the EU Cyber Resilience Act

Seth is also preparing to be the blogger for the Python Langauge Summit
where many topics are covered by core developers.

### Other items

* Seth was credited with the term "slopsquatting" which is squatting a package name
  that's been hallucinated by an LLM. There's a [Wikipedia entry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Slopsquatting) and many articles.
* Seth had talks accepted to the Open Source Summit NA, OpenSSF Community Day, and had his OpenSSF Community Day talk made the keynote.
* Handling vulnerability reports to the PSRT.
* Published "whichprovides" 0.4.0 with support for multiple paths in a single call.
* Added support for generating an SBOM document to "vendoring" project for use
  by pip for bundling its dependencies.
* Attended OSCSE session and Alpha-Omega public meeting.
* Registered for the GitHub Maintainer Summit.
* Talked with Tom Aldrich about adding PURL to CVE ahead of VulnCon.

## PyPI Safety & Security Engineer (Mike Fiedler)

### Malware Response

During April over 180 malware reports were received, with some leading to deeper investigations
uncovering larger campaigns leveraging multiple users, projects, and dependencies.
We are seeing an uptick in similar reports for the same malware project,
triggering the initial [automatic quarantine](https://blog.pypi.org/posts/2024-12-30-quarantine/#future-improvement-automation)
mechanism, as designed. Automated quarantine has not triggered yet for a non-malicious project.

The typo-squatting detection initially launched in March has been helpful
to review new projects, and with it Mike has found 2 true positives

### Account Safety

Account registrations continue to be a source of concern,
with approximately 10k new accounts registered each month in the past 12 months.
Historically, the domains used during registration were not fully validated
for deliverability, which [Mike added mid-2024](https://github.com/pypi/warehouse/pull/16596).

During April, Mike worked on efforts to implement periodic email domain status
verification for PyPI accounts, using the [Domainr API](https://domainr.com/docs/api/v2/status)
via Fastly's Fast Forward program.
This has helped Mike identify over 40k accounts with invalid email domains,
which will be flagged for review and potential removal in the coming months,
alongside other improvements like normalizing email addresses.

This effort brings PyPI closer to achieving "Authentication: Level 2" of
[OpenSSF Principles for Package Repository Security](https://repos.openssf.org/principles-for-package-repository-security#authentication).

### Community Engagement

Mike attended the OpenSSF Securing Software Repositories working group meetings,
provided feedback on open topics and conversations.

At PyCon US 2025, Mike will update folks on the main stage on the past year's work,
and in a sponsor session alongside Seth, and Michael Winser of Alpha-Omega delve deeply.
Mike plans to attend the Packaging Summit and the Security Mini Summit.

Mike made plans to attend the virtual GitHub Maintainer Summit in May 2025
and the Open Source Summit North America in June 2025.
Mike submitted a talk proposal for AWS Summit NY in July 2025.

### Other Items

* Mike was on PTO for the first week of April
* Reviewed proposed OpenSSF guidance on [Crafting a Package Deletion Policy](https://repos.openssf.org/package-deletion-policies)
* Various smaller fixes and improvements to PyPI, including pruning unused dependencies,
  and improving local development experience
