# Update 2025-04

## Security Developer-in-Residence (Seth Larson)

Almost entirely spent time preparing for the many presentations and obligations
at PyCon US. Seth was involved in the following events at PyCon US:

* Attended and covered the Python Language Summit 2025
* Published an "[Everything Security at PyCon US 2025](https://sethmlarson.dev/pycon-us-2025-security-mini-summit)" roundup
* Alpha-Omega & PSF Year-in-Review Sponsor Presentation
* "Meet the PSF Developers-in-Residence" event during opening reception
* AWS Keynote sponsored slot with Michael Winser and Hannah Aubry
* AWS "Meet the Security Experts" session at the AWS expo booth
* Hosted the [Supply-Chain Security Mini-Track](https://sethmlarson.dev/pycon-us-2025-security-mini-summit#supply-chain-security-mini-track) open space which featured 3 talks.
* Spoke about the Cyber Resilience Act at the Supply-Chain Security Mini-Track
* Gave main track talk "[Phantom Dependencies: is your requirements.txt haunted?](https://us.pycon.org/2025/schedule/presentation/14/)"
  which summarized last quarter's work on SBOMs for Python packages.
* Sprinted on security projects at the core developer sprints.

Prepared CPython advisories for CVE-2024-12718, CVE-2025-4138, CVE-2025-4330, CVE-2025-4435, CVE-2025-4517, and CVE-2025-4516.
Coordinated with Python release managers and Python Developers-in-Residence to [release all security fixes in one day](https://discuss.python.org/t/python-3-13-4-3-12-11-3-11-13-3-10-18-and-3-9-23-are-now-available/94367).

Coordinated with David Wheeler and co to add `\z` support to Python. This brings Python into conformance with POSIX
and was part of a [sub-project under the BEST OpenSSF Working Group](https://best.openssf.org/Correctly-Using-Regular-Expressions).

## PyPI Safety & Security Engineer (Mike Fiedler)

### Malware Response

During May over 170 malware reports were processed,
with over 80% being handled within 24 hours.
For any reported during "office hours", 80% were resolved within 4 hours.
Some of the longer outliers were due to nights, weekends, and attending PyCon US.

This is roughly on par with the previous month, where Mike was not traveling,
showing that the improvements in Auto-Quarantine, triggered over 30 times in May,
with no false positives, indicating that our mechanism is working well.

### Account Safety

During May, Mike built on previous work for email domain expiration,
removing over 13,000 invalid accounts from PyPI -
many from mass email registration campaigns from domain names that have since expired.
These accounts provided no value to the community, and were not being used by any real users.
This is a continuation of the work started in April,
and is part of a larger effort to improve account safety on PyPI.

Mike [restricted the ability to reset passwords for accounts with unverified email addresses](https://github.com/pypi/warehouse/pull/18088),
preventing the ability to re-register an expired domain name, set up an email handler for that domain,
and then reset the password for an account that was previously registered with that domain.
This not an uncommon attack vector, and this change will help prevent it.
(Read more on [Principles for Package Repository Security -> Authentication -> Level 2](https://repos.openssf.org/principles-for-package-repository-security#authentication))

There's further work to be done to automate
detection and revocation of email addresses verification,
and Mike expects to make progress over the coming months.

### Community Engagement

Mike attended the 2-day virtual, invitation-only, GitHub Maintainer Summit,
and interacted with other maintainers around the world.
Specifically, took part in sessions related to security -
for GitHub Actions, maintainer behaviors, and accessibility concerns in open source.

Mike attended PyCon US 2025 in Pittsburgh, PA,
spoke at an [Alpha-Omega sponsor presentation](https://youtu.be/ZbHzU72r3mY?si=LeUK__3Z831GGZmH),
provided a main stage update on PyPI security, attended the [Packaging Summit](https://us.pycon.org/2025/events/packaging-summit/),
and participated in [Development Sprints](https://us.pycon.org/2025/events/dev-sprints/).
Notably, during Sprints, Mike connected with contributors from other geographies
and were able to hammer out a [path forward for a 3+ year old annoyance](https://github.com/pypi/warehouse/issues/11096#issuecomment-2895081700)
with Trusted Publishing.

During the monthly Alpha-Omega public meeting, Mike learned about efforts
to provide threat modeling tools to the wider community and provided feedback.

### Other Items

Uncovered a bug from a previous change that disallowed messages for unauthenticated users,
which was causing some issues with the PyPI web behaviors, which was promptly fixed.
Mike also worked on a number of other non-security issues related to PyPI code,
and other projects around the Python ecosystem.
