# Update 2025-03

## Security Developer-in-Residence (Seth Larson)

### SBOMs for Python packages

After more discussion and hang-ups over the method for statically
defining source SBOMs (due to issues discovered in PEP 639, the PEP that
this mechanism was inspired by) Seth refactored this part of PEP 770
out so that the rest can proceed. The PEP is currently waiting for
provisional acceptance so other pull requests can be merged into packaging projects.

The mechanism for specifying SBOM documents by build backends and tools
is still in PEP 770, and it's likely that this mechanism will be more widespread
as it's tools doing the SBOM generation rather than maintainers manually generating
the documents.

Seth created the [`whichprovides` project](https://pypi.org/project/whichprovides) which supports the common Linux distros
(Ubuntu, Debian, CentOS, RockyLinux, AlmaLinux, Alpine) that `manylinx` and `musllinux` wheels are built using.
This project will be adopted by auditwheel as soon as PEP 770 is accepted into
provisional status so SBOMs can begin automatically being generated for bundled libraries.

Seth [created a pull request](https://github.com/pradyunsg/vendoring/pull/66) adding SBOM document generation support to `vendoring`,
the tool that pip and other packaging tools use to bundle libraries from PyPI and patch
them to work as local modules.

Seth has begun developing the presentation for his PyCon US 2025 talk on this
subject and the case study for Alpha-Omega Q1.

### NSF Safe-OSE proposal preparation

The Python Software Foundation was invited to submit a full proposal
after our preliminary proposal to the NSF Safe-OSE solicitation was
accepted. Seth and Loren have been working on preparing a full proposal
to submit related to automated malware remediation on PyPI and capability
and behavior analysis of Python software.

### Other items

* Seth answered questions from the Python Steering Council about
  core developer access.
* Upgraded libexpat to 2.7.0 to fix CVE-2024-8176.
* Participated in both Alpha-Omega meetings for March.

## PyPI Safety & Security Engineer (Mike Fiedler)

### Malware Response

March had over 150 malware reports inbound, some led to deeper investigations,
uncovering larger campaigns, leveraging multiple users, projects, dependencies,
to execute multi-stage attacks while attempting to avoid detection.
While some of these have been reported to GitHub Security, the repositories remain
active until GitHub gets around to handling them.

Mike also discovered a campaign inflating dependency counts to defraud tea.xyz,
and removed over 2,000 projects from PyPI that were created as part of this campaign
and ~300 other projects removed throughout the month.

As part of other analyses, Mike blocked more disposable/suspicious
domain names that were used to register new accounts.

### Typosquatting Detection

The [first iteration of typosquatting detection](https://github.com/pypi/warehouse/pull/17649)
is now live on PyPI. It generates admin-only notifications
when new projects are created that appear in the checks.
This works by generating a corpus of the top 10,000 most dependent on projects
within PyPI, and then checking for new projects that are too similar.
This is not blocking yet, as it is still relatively noisy, and has already led to
at least two new detections of bad behavior.
The efforts here also introduced a new query results caching service,
which can be used for other performance-critical endpoints if needed.

### Community Engagement

Worked with Seth on handling [GHSA-wmxh-pxcx-9w24](https://github.com/nhairs/python-json-logger/security/advisories/GHSA-wmxh-pxcx-9w24) which helped downgrade the severity of the issue to Low.

Participated in OpenSSF Securing Software Repositories working group meeting,
as well as Alpha Omega intro meeting on the OSCSE idea.

Mike prepared and gave a presentation for Monki Gras 2025 in London on
Sustainability of Open Source via volunteering.

### Other Items

* Improved performance for a [legacy XMLRPC API endpoint by ~20%](https://github.com/pypi/warehouse/pull/17715)
* Identified a performance regression in another endpoint and discussed how to mitigate with other PyPI admins.
* Identified a [legacy data quality issue](https://github.com/pypi/warehouse/issues/17732)
* Published a historical advisory for [`pygments-style-solarized`](https://osv.dev/vulnerability/PYSEC-2025-8)
* Mike was on PTO for a few days at the end of March,
  and expects to be PTO for a week in April
