# Update 2025-06

## Security Developer-in-Residence (Seth Larson)

### Conferences and Talks

Seth spent time preparing for travel, giving 2 talks, a keynote session,
and participating in a tabletop session in June.

Seth led a breakout session during the Sovereign Tech Agency x Alpha-Omega
"Maintain-a-thon" titled "Security for the Long-Haul". The [description,
questions, and notes for that session are published online](https://sethmlarson.dev/un-open-source-week-2025-security-for-the-long-haul).
Seth attended the entirety of the United Nations Open Source Week June 15th-20th.

Seth attended Open Source Summit from June 23rd-25th. Seth gave a talk
"Phantom Dependencies: Is your requirements.txt haunted?" about his work
on Software Bill-of-Materials documents for Python packages. At Open
Source Summit Seth was a guest on the "What's in the SOSS?"
podcast. Seth attended the entire day of OSCSE and Alpha-Omega roundtable
discussions on Tuesday.

Seth also attended OpenSSF Community Day on June 26th where he delivered the opening
keynote "Security work isn't Special" which discussed how security work
for open source projects was unlike any other open source contribution
(features, bugfixes, docs, community, governance, etc) in that
not *anyone* in the community can do the work and the implications.
Seth was also a participant in the OpenSSF Community Day Tabletop Session (TTX)
playing the role of "Researcher".

### NSF Safe-OSE Grant Proposal

Seth Larson and Loren Crary were notified by the NSF
that the grant proposal required changes that would
be needed in 24 hours or less. We were able to submit
the requested changes within the deadline and are
now waiting for final approval for funding.

### Other items

* Reviewed PEP 792 and PEP 694.
* Published advisory and CVE record for CVE-2025-6069
* Triaged Python Security Response Team reports.
* Paid time off June 6th-10th

## PyPI Safety & Security Engineer (Mike Fiedler)

### Community Engagement

Mike participated in multiple conferences in June,
the United Nations Open Source Week
the Linux Foundation's Open Source Summit North America 2025,
followed by the OpenSSF Community Day USA.
Mike met with representatives of other projects involved in large-scale analysis efforts,
and discussed potential future overlapping projects.
Thanks to the Sovereign Tech Agency and Alpha-Omega, Mike was able to attend these events,
meet with other open source security professionals,
discuss the state of open source development and security,
and share experiences with folks outside the Python community.

Mike gave a talk at a local New York City event for hackNY Fellows, focused on
open source, Python Software Foundation, and PyPI security.

### Malware Response

During June 125 malware reports were processed,
with slower response times than in previous months, due to travel and conferences.

Despite travel, most reports were handled within 24 hours,
with some outliers taking longer to fully investigate and resolve.

Automated Quarantine still proves a zero false-positive rate,
as it's driven by trusted security research team reporters,
preventing further spread of malicious code by bad actors.

### Account Safety

Mike completed the initial phase of *Principles for Package Repository Security*,
*Authentication* "domain resurrection for account takeover".

Now, when a user account with an email address from a domain enters an "expiration" period,
their email domain verification status will be removed,
and password resets will not be allowed to being performed with that email address.
This prevents an attacker from taking over an account by registering a domain
that has expired and is no longer owned by the original user.

Upcoming work will analyze the impact and effectiveness of this approach on PyPI.

### Other Items

Mike performed an analysis of error responses from PyPI's APIs and found
one particular external service was responsible for between 10-20% of responses.
Mike compiled a report and passed along to the service provider to remediate,
which was completed on July 2nd, reducing the overall error rate of PyPI APIs,
saving bandwidth needed and compute resources consumed.

Mike analyzed the impact of changing a security cookie parameters
to match expected user behaviors, as well as refactors to the Trusted Publishing
logic to enable a future change to allow reusable workflows
(currently the most +1'd feature request on the PyPI issue tracker).

Mike performed some routine maintenance on the PyPI infrastructure,
speeding up developer experience, and improving overall development of the platform.
