# Rustls

Our goal is to build a safer TLS library that can largely replace OpenSSL over time. The headline features of the new library, Rustls, are performance and memory safety.

Since the end of 2022, Prossimo has made the following investments in Rustls:

* A 2-month part-time contract with Joe Birr-Pixton to add IP address and C.4 session caching. December 2022 through January 2023.
* A 9-month full-time contract with Daniel McCarney to work on items in our work plan. March 2023 through November 2023.
* A 7-month full-time contract with Joe Birr-Pixton to work on items in our work plan. June 2023 through December 2023.
* A 7-month part-time contract with Ferrous Systems to work on asynchronous APIs, write-through APIs, and no-std support. June 2023 through December 2023.
* A 5-month part-time contract with Adolfo Ochagavia to work on benchmarking. August 2023 through December 2023.

We are making great progress. The community is also growing rapidly, with new contributors showing up regularly and largely representing new consumers of Rustls.

Work under Prossimo contracts has so far led to:
* A major new release was announced on March 30th, adding support for some of the most heavily requested features, including IP address support, C.4 session caching, and a number of API improvements. 
* A release on July 7 adding CRL support, particularly important for client certificate support.

Numerous other fixes and improvements along the way.

By the end of 2023 we expect to have:

* An excellent benchmarking system capable of preventing performance regressions and comparing against OpenSSL.
* A pluggable cryptography back-end with a new default FIPS-certified cryptography back-end.
* Asynchronous APIs
* A no-allocation API

# Rust for Linux 
Our goal is to make Rust a supported second language for Linux kernel development, and to foster the creation of drivers and modules written in Rust.

The primary maintainer of Rust for Linux, Miguel Ojeda, has been working full time under contract with Prossimo since April of 2021.

Linux v6.4 was released late June and included a [Rust PR](<https://lore.kernel.org/lkml/20230429012119.421536-1-ojeda@kernel.org/),
including the Rust pin-init API and key synchronization abstractions.

Linux v6.5-rc1 was released on July 10th and included another [Rust PR](<https://lore.kernel.org/lkml/20230618161558.1051269-1-ojeda@kernel.org/>),
including the first upgrade to the Rust toolchain version used by the
kernel.

The KUnit and Workqueue kernel subsystems have agreed to land Rust changes through their tree (the initial Rust + KUnit integration and the workqueue abstractions). This represents a growing involvement from kernel maintainers with Rust in the kernel.

[Discussions](<https://github.com/epage/pytest-rs/discussions/50>) were started with the Rust team on the Linux kernel needs around `rustdoc` and overall testing.

Kangrejos 2023: this edition of the Rust for Linux workshop has been announced and the invitations have been sent. Quorum has been already reached, with 20+ people confirmed.

Linux Plumbers Conference 2023: the [Rust microconference](<https://lpc.events/event/17/sessions/170/>) has been accepted and we have started receiving submissions.

Coccinelle for Rust has been announced. Julia Lawall and Tathagata Roy presented it to Rust for Linux in one of our Weekly Meetings.
