# 2026-04

## Security Developer-in-Residence (Seth Larson)

### Python Security Response Team

* Published 11 advisories with patches for CPython and pip just in April. For reference,
  there were 21 advisories published in the entirety of 2025 :')
  * [CVE-2026-3087] shutil.unpack_archive() doesn't check for Windows absolute paths in ZIPs
  * [CVE-2026-3298] Out-of-bounds write in Windows asyncio.ProacterEventLoop.sock_recvfrom_into() when using nbytes
  * [CVE-2026-3219] pip doesn't reject concatenated ZIP and tar archives
  * [CVE-2026-5713] Out-of-bounds read/write during remote debugging when connecting to malicious target
  * [CVE-2026-4786] Incomplete mitigation of CVE-2026-4519, %action expansion for command injection to webbrowser.open()
  * [CVE-2026-6100] Use-after-free in lzma.LZMADecompressor, bz2.BZ2Decompressor, and gzip.GzipFile after re-use under memory pressure
  * [CVE-2026-3446] Base64 decoding stops at first padded quad by default]
  * [CVE-2026-1502] HTTP client proxy tunnel headers not validated for CR/LF
  * [CVE-2026-5271] Python install manager script aliases search path hijack
* Created `ghsa-cli` tool which patches some of the shortcomings of
  GitHub Security Advisories such as quickly adding collaborators,
  crediting people for coordinating, developing or reviewing remediations,
  or creating CVE records from a GHSA ticket. GitHub:
  https://github.com/sethmlarson/ghsa-cli and published to PyPI: https://pypi.org/project/ghsa-cli
* Began crediting all contributors to advisories in the CVE record with a link
  to their name and GitHub page. This is a part of "Open Source Security isn't Special"
  and making security work more like regular Open Source contribution through
  recognition of work.
* Added feature to PSRT GHSA bot so that non-admin security response team
  members can close tickets by adding `[CLOSED]` to the title.
* Fixed pagination in PSRT GHSA bot.

### Workflow supply-chain attacks

* Responded to LiteLLM/Telnyx supply-chain attacks.
  Created a [timeline and full report](https://blog.pypi.org/posts/2026-04-02-incident-report-litellm-telnyx-supply-chain-attack/) which was published
  to the PyPI blog. 
* pip v26.1 was published with support for relative dependency cooldowns.
  Seth was involved in the design of this feature. [Published a
  blog post](https://sethmlarson.dev/pip-relative-dependency-cooldowns) detailing this new feature.

### PyCon US, EuroPython

* PyCon US "Security Track" is ready to go!
  https://us.pycon.org/2026/tracks/security/
* Preparing for the "PSF Security Update" on the
  PyCon US main stage with Mike Fiedler. Will talk about
* Scheduled and planning "Sponsor Talk" from Alpha-Omega
  with Michael Winser. Will be a combination of "Year in Review"
  and what's ahead for Python security (vulnerability discovery
  with genAI tools)
* Scheduled interview with JetBrains about Python Developer Survey
  and security of Python.
* EuroPython talk and author page has been published.
  https://ep2026.europython.eu/session/learning-from-the-not-so-secret-python-security-cabal
  The talk title is "Learning from the not-so-secret Python security 'cabal'"
  and will detail the Python Security Response Team and how other
  open source projects and potential contributors can contribute
  to project security.

### LLM Vulnerability Tools

* Activated Claude 20X Max from Alpha-Omega and
  was able to scan projects for vulnerabilities.
* Partnered with Andrew Nesbitt on getting Scrutineer
  to work with `claude.ai` subscription and was able
  to successfully scan multiple projects.
* Working with OSCSE and other security researchers
  on LLM-assisted vulnerability detection.

### Other items

* Multiple projects have adopted PEP 770 including
  `tzdata` (https://github.com/python/tzdata/pull/130) and `Pillow` (https://github.com/python-pillow/Pillow/pull/9550)
  so will likely be shipping with SBOM data soon.
* Deprecated `http.cookies.Morsel.js_output()` after a security vulnerability.
  This function is no longer needed.

## PyPI Safety & Security Engineer (Mike Fiedler)

(To be submitted by Mike)
