## Update September 2025

On Friday 5th September received the news that Alpha-Omega would be providing financial support to cover three of the five or so programs of work proposed. Timing could not have been better, with the team completing development of two applications supported by Open Source Collective. As a result the team were able to convene and begin work just four days later. 

### API Policy

Having announced earlier in the month that [rate limiting would be coming](https://blog.ecosyste.ms/2025/09/01/rate-limiting-the-right-way.html) we began deploying the infrastrcuture that would allow us to implement those limits. 

[APISIX](https://apisix.apache.org) was deployed in front of all core ecosyste.ms services with an incredibly generous rate limit under which all but one of our ~30m unique users was accomodated. We discussed current usage paterns with our two largest customers and continued to monitor usage through APISIX's dashboards to inform our future pricing. 

Meanwhile our designer Martin developed the UX and UI elements for users to create, manage and pay for increased API limits through ecosyste.ms central application server. 

### Contributor Guidance

Our newest team member James began the frustrating experience of onboarding himself as a new contributor to ecosyste.ms, stepping on numerous rakes a la [SideShow Bob](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aRq1Ksh-32g), documenting his experiences as he went. 

The team selected [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io) as our preferred documentation tool. Martin created a simple theme to match our fonts, colourscheme and branding used elsewhere on our site. 

Our documentation will be made avaiaible in the weeks to come over at https://docs.ecosyste.ms/docs/

### Governance

The team reviewed the governance frameworks used successfully by a number of projects to manage sponsor input and yet maintain independence for maintainers. Homebrew and Open Web docs were identified as two examples of projects managing this particularly well. 

On the advice from one of the above project maitnainers the team convened to discuss the values that we wish to instill in our governance structure, which we will document as a charter in the first instance. This document will form the foundation on which our governance structure will both stand, and reference to ensure we build a project community and culture that we can be proud of. 