# Rust for Linux
  
Our goal [Rust for Linux](https://rust-for-linux.com) is to add support for the Rust language to the Linux kernel in order to improve the security and reliability of billions of devices and computer systems that use the Linux kernel around the world. This will likely be achieved by merging the first Rust production drivers into the Linux kernel, though the timeline for doing so will be determined by the community and its contributions. 


**December Highlights**

  - The Linux v6.13 Rust-related PRs (including
[ours](https://lore.kernel.org/all/20241126022500.718070-1-ojeda@kernel.org/)
and other subsystems) landed.

  - A first [`rust-fixes` PR for
v6.13](https://lore.kernel.org/rust-for-linux/20241214065217.195385-1-ojeda@kernel.org/)
was submitted and landed. Several backports to v6.12 LTS were
submitted and landed too.

  - The PR for Linux v6.14 is being prepared.

  - Upstream Rust has formally proposed Rust for Linux as a [flagship
goal for 2025H1](https://rust-lang.github.io/rust-project-goals/2025h1/rfl.html).
While the items are not decided yet, it is likely that upstream Rust
will have the Linux kernel as part of their project goals again, which
is key to eventually get the kernel into stable Rust.

  - Plus many other minor maintenance tasks and activities, such as
the usual meetings (weekly, core, Rust project, Linux Technical
Advisory Board...), reviewing/acking/testing patches, submitting
fixes/cleanups, handling lists and issues, stable/LTS kernels
maintenance, liaison/discussions with related projects, maintaining
the website, creating "good first issues", etc.
