# Update 2025-07

## Samuel Giddins

### Gems with Prebuilt Binaries
After months of prototyping, running into dead-ends, and countless hours spent swearing, Samuel has wheel support fully working inside of RubyGems. This proved an _exceptionally_ challenging change to make, even after several groundwork-laying steps landed over the past few months. Many of the dead-ends were caused by a fundamental impedance mismatch between the existing `Gem::Platform` (represented in serialized formats both as a single string and a `(cpu, os, version)` triple) model’s two roles: answering the questions “what ‘platforms’ can this package run on” and “what concrete ‘platform’ do we need to be able to run on”. A single class that needs to be distilled down to a string format that _every_ version of RubyGems and Bundler expects to be able to understand doesn’t want to be changed — when something needs to stay covariant and contravariant, congrats, you’ve found an _in_variant. Working around this ossification required the introduction of the new notion of “wheels” borrowed from python (tag sets that represent what a specific package can run on), plus a specific platform (my `arm64-darwin-23` machine, running `cruby` version 3.4.4, which supports ruby `3.4.4`, with an ABI of `3.4.0-static`), which in turn can generate a set of tags it is compatible with.

To see the gory details, which are awaiting Samuel’s distillation into an RFC, you can follow along in the [draft PR](https://github.com/rubygems/rubygems/pull/8891). Additionally, there will be a large (but hopefully less complicated) follow-up step of bringing this support for wheels to Bundler that will be needed before this large improvement can ship.

### RailsConf Talk
Samuel co-presented a main stage talk at RailsConf in Philadelphia about the history of rubygems.org, along with the service’s original creator, Nick Quaranto. The talk explored how rubygems.org has evolved over time, with a lens towards the ways in which Rails development writ large has changed since 2009. A [recording is available](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LkXa5tG7kOo), as are the [slides](https://speakerdeck.com/segiddins/evolution-of-rails-within-rubygems-dot-org).

### Other Updates

* At hack day at RailsConf, Samuel helped an open source contributor attempt to get [compact index support inside of `gemstash`](https://github.com/rubygems/gemstash/pull/392) [over the finish line](https://github.com/rubygems/gemstash/pull/412), which will enable SHA-based pinning of gems for users of gemstash-powered private gem servers.
* Samuel recommends not getting sick, it has a nasty tendency to get in the way of writing code.

## Marty Haught

### Organizations

AWS went live in production as the first Organization on RubyGems.org.  The team processed the initial feedback and addressed immediate concerns.  We’re currently thinking through how to help them transfer 400 gems into the organization.

### RailsConf & Team offsite

Our annual developer conference, RailsConf, happened in Philadelphia on July 8-10.  The RubyGems team had a table during the community day Hackspace.  We saw good engagement from attendees with 5 PRs submitted from new contributors.

Additionally, we held a team offsite the day after the conference with 6 team members in town and 3 connecting remotely.  It was good to see the team in person and we had some productive conversations (see next section).

### Rubygems.org Policies

A big topic of the team offsite was the specifics of policies on gem deletion, archiving, gem ownership and unreachable maintainers. We were largely in agreement and copious notes were taken.  We have a follow-up to draft these policies for internal review.

### Security Working Group

This has been on hold while Marty focused on other things.  Marty did invite the group to a Doodle to schedule our first meeting in mid-to-late August.  So far only 3 people have engaged so some reminders will need to go out.  

## Infrastructure Security - SSO

Colby completed the project plan document including the timeline.  It’s been reviewed and work on the first phase has started.  The bulk of the work will happen in August.  Legacy access will be removed in November. 
