# Update 2025-10

## Security Engineer

At the time of this writing, we are close to posting a job opening for a Senior Security Engineer to backfill Samuel Giddins' position. This will go through a traditional hiring process, which is new for Ruby Central. We will use a three interviews for our loop.  Marty will handle the initial hiring manager screen. This will be followed by a hands-on technical interview with the first part pairing on a technical exercise and the second part involving technical Q&A. The third will be an interview panel with the Open Source Committee.  Our hiring rubric is in final review and the team will be assembling the technical exercise next week.

## Marty Haught

### Rubygems Repository

The primary contested repository containing RubyGems and Bundler was transferred to the Ruby core team on Oct 17. Matz made a [statement](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/news/2025/10/17/rubygems-repository-transition/) about the transfer, and Ruby Central followed up with its own [statement](https://rubycentral.org/news/ruby-central-statement-on-rubygems-bundler/). The overall process has gone much more slowly than hoped due to all the coordination. We expect to resolve the remaining repositories in early November.

### Governance

The final significant item from the ownership incident is how to proceed with governance. Marty submitted a proposal on how to proceed with governance for Rubygems, Bundler, and RubyGems.org to the Ruby Central Board, which they are still considering. We know Ruby Core and Ruby Central will be involved, but further details will emerge from an open governance process. Marty has engaged Tiffany Farriss from the Drupal Association to discuss how best to move forward. 

### Unauthorized Access and Credentials Rotation

At the end of September, we [reported](https://rubycentral.org/news/rubygems-org-aws-root-access-event-september-2025/) about unauthorized AWS root account access. As mentioned in the post, we saw no evidence that this security incident compromised end user data, accounts, gems, or infrastructure availability. This was a miss on our part, and we prioritized rotating all production secrets, followed by secrets for staging and our deployment pipeline.

### Operational Transition

The team's focus in October was the operational transition. Our top priority was to get back to 6 operators, which we achieved by Oct 23. This forms our core group of operators to manage the service 24/7 with a primary and secondary rotation. All of these operators have signed our new operator agreements or have joined through our Contributor Stewardship Program.

We are adding additional operators to hit our goal of 12 total operators to sustain a follow-the-sun on-call rotation. The majority of these operators are provided through in kind contributions of our Contributor Stewardship Program. This is significant as it minimizes the cost of on-call.

Another important milestone was that we created new onboarding documentation and runbooks for the Rubygems.org service.

### Sigstore

On October 10th, the sigstore-ruby client [fell behind](https://github.com/sigstore/sigstore-ruby/issues/263) in its support of Sigstore's production servers, resulting in all attestations failing. We addressed the issue by contributing pull requests to the upstream sigstore Ruby library, resulting in a [new release](https://github.com/sigstore/sigstore-ruby/releases/tag/v0.2.2) of sigstore-ruby and full restoration of trusted publishing functionality.  This sparked an internal conversation about how this change in Sigstore's production servers impacted RubyGems.org directly.  

## Infrastructure Security - SSO

We completed the final task this month of removing long lived credentials.  We now consider this project completed.