# Update 2025-02

## Samuel Giddins

### Post on handling Malicious packages
Samuel wrote a fictitious blog post telling the tale of how a package repository might handle a malicious package.  Many in our community don't know what happens behind the scenes to resolve a compromised package.  Sharing this story received positive comments from our community.  https://blog.rubygems.org/2025/02/20/dealing-with-sham-packages.html

### RubyGems.org Policies

Along with Marty, Samuel spent a fair amount of time honing on the policies we're going to roll out for rubygems.org. This involved some cataloging of the data we collect and use, existing rules (as implemented in the codebase) around gem namespaces and yanking, and what capabilities we want to reserve for ourselves in the future. Additionally, we've started thinking about what will be necessary to roll out the policies on a technical level.

### Sigstore

#### sigstore-ruby

The sigstore-ruby client is just about ready for a `0.3.0` release, bringing improved spec compliance and jruby support. The jruby support proved extremely tricky, as it required re-implementing some cryptographic operations using the java security APIs instead of the `jruby-openssl` gem.

#### Ecosystem Adoption

There's now a tracker for adoption of sigstore amongst the most popular gems at https://segiddins.github.io/are-we-attested-yet/. We're up to 20 of the top gems shipping attestations, and Samuel has been working directly with maintainers of some of those top gems to help them adopt sigstore signing into their release workflows.

### "Wheels" For RubyGems

Samuel has been working on a proposal for "wheels" for RubyGems, which would allow gem authors to ship precompiled binaries of their gems whenever possible (instead of the gem building an extension at install time). This is better for security -- no code running at install time, and more ergonomic for users -- no need to install build tools, deal with build errors, waiting for slow compilation. An outline of the project goals has been published at https://traveling.engineer/posts/goals-for-binary-gems/, and some implementation sketches are in the works.

### Other Items

* Started work on Ruby release tarball reproducibility. Expect a blog post in the next couple of weeks outlining my findings, and in April Samuel will be talking with Ruby Core about what we can do to make releases bitwise reproducible.
* Gave a talk at the KRUG (Krakow Ruby User Group) February 2025 meetup about the Future of Ruby Supply Chain Security
* Gave a workshop on modernizing gem development practices at Ruby Community Conference 2025, helping maintainers set up trusted publishing & sigstore signing
* Continued work on a standard for binary transparency for package repositories

## Marty Haught

### Compliance
Marty completed a review of all 3rd party vendors with data access to RubyGems.org.  He filled out a “data map” spreadsheet capturing what PII is shared and why.  We have updated our privacy notice to include this information.

### Policy Work
We finished our policy work after getting other Ruby Central staff to include how other parts of the organization collect and use personal information.  Marty has a PR under review for publishing the policies.  This is estimated to complete in the first week of March.  We’ll send an email to all registered RubyGems users notifying them of the change and follow that up with a blog post on RubyGems.org.  

The next bit of policy work is revisiting our package deletion policy.  We plan to lean on the work Hayley Denbraver is doing on behalf of OpenSSF’s Security Software Repos WG.

### Organizations
Internally, we’ve changed how the team approaches non-maintenance work.  Members write mini-proposals that identify the work, why it’s important, and define the scope with an estimated timeline.  Colby wrote the first proposal to complete the loose ends for launching our beta of Organizations.  Marty approved it, and work will begin in the first week of March.  Colby is targeting to demo in late March for the AWS gem team.

### Infrastructure Security
Marty submitted the phase 1 proposal to Alpha-Omega on Feb 7th.  While we wait for resolution with that, Colby and Marty are working with two specialists to firm up phase 2.  One of the specialists, Eleanor Saitta, will work with Marty on addressing gaps with security process and governance outside of the Trail of Bits security audit. 

### 2025 Roadmap and Fundraising
Marty continued to make progress on the roadmap and fundraising side. We now have a 1-pager sponsorship brief to engage Ruby enterprise companies. Marty shared it with several current sponsors to collect feedback on how to improve the messaging.  The next piece for the fundraising efforts will be a public roadmap.  This is critical as when we engage with potential sponsors, they’ll ask what we need the funding for.  This list is also useful for our community to understand where we’d like to take things.  It needs more detail as well as touching on the why or problems we’re trying to solve rather than indicating the solution.
