# Update 2025-03

## Samuel Giddins

### CocoaPods Supply Chain Security

Unfortunately, Samuel spent a fair amount of time this month responding to supply chain concerns in the _other_ packaging ecosystem he is responsible for, CocoaPods. Due to the ongoing nature of those concerns, this update will refrain from talking about specifics, but Samuel investigated, mitigated, and discussed with the security community a series of attacks carried out against the package registry.

### "Wheels" For RubyGems

Samuel has made progress on implementing improved precompiled binary packages for RubyGems, settling on a naming scheme for package files and the set of identifying tags the Ruby ecosystem will require. Next up is continuing to evangelize to the Ruby community _why_ precompiled binaries are desireable, despite preconceived notions they are less secure than everyone compiling native extensions from downloaded packages.

### Ecosystem Data

Samuel worked to push ecosystem data into ClickHouse, in the spirit of the wonderful [clickpy](https://clickpy.clickhouse.com/) site. ClickHouse now has daily download totals for gems in addition to the latest public database dumps from RubyGems.org, and granular download data is in the process of being rolled out. Sending a row for each download from the RubyGems.org CDN required retooling the [kirby](https://github.com/rubytogether/kirby) log parser to stream output from the CDN access logs. This granular data will unlock new insights into package usage for the Ruby community, and will hopefully give package maintainers the information they need to make informed decisions around supported platforms.

### Policies Rollout

In addition to the work on defining the policies RubyGems.org is currently seeking comment on, Samuel worked to roll those policies out to the website and the site's users. Work was started on tracking acknowledgement of the new policies, making sure users were notified of the policies, and eventually requiring policy agreement to continue creating or modifying resources on the site.

### Other Items

* A brief DOS against RubyGems.org necessitated an investigation into some web pages that have extremely heavy database queries. Nothing concrete has come of the investigation, but it's another reminder that visibility into database performance is paramount to running a web system at scale.


## Marty Haught

### Ruby Central and RubyGems Policies

We [publicly announced](https://rubycentral.org/news/introducing-new-policies-to-support-the-growth-of-rubygems/) [new policies](https://rubygems.org/policies) for [Ruby Central](https://rubycentral.org/privacy-notice/) and RubyGems on March 20th.  After some discussion with the PSF, we opted for a 60 day review-and-comment period to allow the community to digest and offer feedback on the new policies.  Given that we had no formal policies previously, there is a high probability that there would be an outcry if they immediately went into effect.  Since this was announced, we have already received some feedback, all of which is valid.  Our goal is to have the policies go into effect on May 20th, 2025.

### Security Working Group Charter

Marty wrote a [charter](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1c0k_v2v2F425MU5d_eeKCap1eHAx4PN2VquwN-comOc/edit?usp=sharing) for a Ruby-focused security working group.  He worked internally with the team on the best goals and objectives.  He  worked with several other members of the OpenSSF community who had prior experience with working groups to draw on prior art.  Marty has started private conversations with key Ruby enterprise companies on their interest in the group.  Finally, he will share this publicly at [RubyKaigi](https://rubykaigi.org/2025/) in mid-April.

### ClickGems

Adding to Samuel's update, Marty worked with the team at [ClickHouse](https://clickhouse.com) to iron out all the details on our collaboration with them on the Ruby version of [ClickPy](https://clickpy.clickhouse.com).  This is slated to go live in early April.  Both organizations will promote this new service once it's publicly available.  We've invited members of ClickHouse to RailsConf to give a lightning talk on building this new service.

### Organizations

Colby is partway through the outstanding work on Organizations to give beta access to select organizations.  AWS will be the first to test out the new feature.  The expectation is to give them a demo in early April.  Colby will be traveling to RubyKaigi so there isn't much time until his trip.

### Other news

We have exciting news from Ruby Central.  We've hired our new executive director.  
It's been nearly two years since our last full-time executive director stepped down.  Since then two board members stepped in to run the organization as interim executive directors.  Marty was involved in the hiring process for the new ED.  An announcement on the new hire will be published in April. 
