# Update 2025-04

## Samuel Giddins

### CocoaPods Supply Chain Security

Unfortunately, Samuel again spent a fair amount of time this month responding to supply chain concerns in the other packaging ecosystem he is responsible for, CocoaPods.
On the bright side, much of that time this month was directed towards efforts to safely wind down that package repository.
Expect collaboration with the OpenSSF Securing Software Repositories Working Group in conjunction with phased mitigation of concerns in the future.

### Ruby Kaigi

Along with other members of the team, Samuel attended Ruby Kaigi (Japan's premier annual Ruby conference) in Matsuyama, Japan this month.
In addition to attending the conference, Samuel participated in the co-located Ruby Developer Meeting and also delivered a talk around the challenges of building the [sigstore-ruby](https://github.com/sigstore/sigstore-ruby) sigstore client.

Most importantly, Samuel was able to have several crucial in-person discussions with the folks building ruby:

* With the JRuby team: what is path forward for crypto primitives, and how can Samuel help get JRuby to parity with MRI
* Ruby Core: Samuel discussed the [state of ruby release build reproducibility](https://traveling.engineer/posts/ruby-release-reproducibility/), and ruby core accepted in principle the proposed improvements. Next up will be testing and making the archive build reproducible. Eventually, reproducibility of the built and installed binaries could be tackled as a follow-up.
* gGem native extensions: There was another conference talk on this subject, intersecting with the ongoing "wheels" work. Additionally, discussed what a more declarative build system could look like for extensions, replacing `extconf.rb` and `mkmf` which are hard to understand, slow due to serial execution, replicate duplicate work across different extensions.

### Wheels

Samuel received a lot more feedback than expected on the initial wheels proposal over the past month, so development work slowed to allow time to synthesize ruby community feedback with (in progress) OpenSSF SSRWG guidance. Samuel is now spearheading a working group effort to define best practices around precompiled binaries in packages, which will inform the direction rubygems takes going forward. Ruby feedback is currently being collected in a [discussion](https://github.com/rubygems/rubygems/discussions/8645), with the goal of coming to a proposal that has consensus support soon.

### Ecosystem Data

Samuel wrapped up the project to send ecosystem data to Clickhouse. Clickhouse [publicly announced](https://clickhouse.com/blog/announcing-ruby-gem-analytics-powered-by-clickhouse) availability of the data, and Samuel quickly proved its usefulness by sharing `jruby`-specific usage information with the JRuby team at Kaigi.

### Other Items

* Integrated API key secret scanning with deps.dev
* Improved database monitoring of rubygems.org, leading to actionable insights on missing indices that might have caused prior outages
* Ensured that data on missing packages was not inadvertantly published, reducing the attack surface for slopsquatting.

## Marty Haught

### ClickHouse RubyGems
The collaboration between ClickHouse and RubyGems went live on April 15th, as announced on ClickHouse’s [blog](https://clickhouse.com/blog/announcing-ruby-gem-analytics-powered-by-clickhouse).  This post is great as it gets into the details of how ClickHouse pulls in the data from RubyGems.  I’ve already received private feedback from community members who appreciate having access to this level of information on RubyGems activity.

### RubyKaigi
The big focus for me in April was attending [RubyKaigi](https://rubykaigi.org/2025/) in Matsuyama, Japan.  I was in Japan for two weeks, so half of the month! 

This is the premier Ruby conference in Japan and it’s an annual gathering for the Ruby Core team.  One of my objectives was to build relationships with members of Ruby Core.  The RubyGems team member, [hsbt](https://github.com/hsbt), lives in Japan and doesn’t travel abroad.  I met with him multiple times, including going out for a fantastic private sushi dinner.  We talked about how to have him more involved in our work, including planning out future projects.  

The other notable observation from my trip was how vibrant the Ruby community in Japan is.  It felt like RubyConf 2010.  There were over 1500 attendees which, to my knowledge, makes this the largest Ruby conference currently.  There were over 60 sponsors, 46 of which had booths.  They were all hiring developers.  I left inspired and wondered how we could connect them more to what we’re doing at Ruby Central.  I discussed this with hsbt and he introduced me to folks that run the Ruby Association, which is the Japanese equivalent to Ruby Central.  We discussed ways that they could involve the Japan business community in supporting RubyGems.  We have a follow-up conversation on how to go about doing that.

I met with many other Rubyists, some at large Ruby companies and others active in the worldwide community.  I was able to talk about important topics for RubyGems and the ecosystem as a whole.  I left feeling more connected with others and many seeds were planted on ways to collaborate in the future.  

All in all, a very successful trip.

### Security Working Group
Another important objective of the Japan trip was to discuss the charter for the Ruby security working group.  I met with several security-minded engineers either on Rails Core, Ruby Core, or at large Ruby companies.  The reception was positive.  I left with a list of potential members to invite once we’re ready to launch the working group.

### RubyGems Policies
It was a quiet month for feedback on our newly announced RubyGems policies.  I interpret this as general acceptance.  The next step with policies is to determine what we want to do with acknowledging the new policies.  Should we take a lighter approach where we promote the policies and give users the ability to acknowledge but not require acknowledgment?  Or do we strictly limit some RubyGems activity for users who have not acknowledged the policies?  At this point, we are leaning towards the lighter approach so as not to disrupt API interaction that would break integration with external services.

### Baltic Ruby Keynote
The organizers for [Baltic Ruby](https://balticruby.org/) reached out to help promote their OSS expo in mid June.  We agreed and shared our approach to community involvement through a ‘hack space’ for OSS projects.  They also invited me to keynote at their conference. After some consideration, I accepted.  I’ll be speaking about sustainability, security, and reliability in open source through the lens of RubyGems.

### Organizations

We wrapped up the remaining work on Organizations after RubyKaigi.  We scheduled a demo with the AWS gems team for the first week of May.

### Other news

Our new Executive Director, Shan Cureton, started on April 28th. You can read the announcement [here](https://rubycentral.org/news/welcoming-ruby-centrals-new-executive-director-shan-cureton/).

## Infrastructure Security - SSO

The first phase of the Infrastructure Security work focused on SSO access is estimated to start in May 2025 once another project wraps up. 
