# Update 2025-05

## Samuel Giddins

### Improved Support for Precompiled Binaries

This month, Samuel laid a lot of the ground work for bringing Python's `wheels` to RubyGems.
After a couple rounds of community feedback, Samuel has started to hone in on a message that makes it clear that this project is meant to encompass a broad improvement towards the experience of both using and producing gems with `extensions` (native binaries). Teaching how this relates to security improvements has proven difficult, as fellow security engineers have endorsed the idea that "of course running arbitrary code at install time is bad!", while community members do not see a security benefit in shifting towards downloading precompiled binaries.

The outcome of these discussions is looking like a combination of the following: implementing support for the notion of "compatibility tags" that wheels brought to the python packaging ecosystem, continuing to encourage the publication of sigstore attestations / provenance alongside precompiled gems, building out common workflows for gem authors to be able to build their gems across the most common platform support matrix (and doing so with SLSA support, sigstore, trusted publishing, etc.), and finally improving the development experience of building gems with extensions so that there can be a golden path that smoothly fits in with all the preceding pieces.

This project is proving to be larger in scope than originally planned, but Samuel is using it as an opportunity to invest in community engagement and building tooling that can be widely adopted.

On the technical side, Samuel worked through some of the original Bundler & RubyGems code to make it possible to consolidate platform handling so that compatibility tag support can be transparently dropped in. Additionally, Samuel has started prototyping `gemspec` DSL changes to allow developers to split package metadata on a per-platform basis without needing to completely wipe development workspaces when switching between different platforms.

### Security Community Engagement

Continuing the theme of engagement, Samuel spent a week this month at PyCon, taking the opportunity to spend time around the python packaging community.
This trip proved fruitful, as there was no shortage of good ideas Samuel has added to the "To Copy" list.
Foremost amongst those ideas was focusing on getting community buy-in and treating that as "real work", as technical changes end up having no impact when not adopted. Inspired by Mike Fiedler's experience, Samuel is now thinking of pushing on requiring MFA for all users on RubyGems.org (in line with the Principles for Package Repository Security) and taking on community work needed to make that happen.
Additionally, Samuel started some conversations around what it will take to get larger enterprise package authors to adopt trusted publish and sigstore and all the other features that are now being touted as "best practices".
Spending time outside the Ruby community also serves as a helpful reminder of all the work, both social and technical, that can be shared across ecosystems. Samuel plans to continue to push others to invest in solutions he can shamelessly piggyback off of.

### Other Updates

- [Dropped support for the now-EOL Ruby 3.1](https://github.com/rubygems/rubygems/pull/8634)
- [Set up GitHub actions linting with zizmor](https://github.com/rubygems/rubygems/pull/8702)
- Started several discussions around legacy pieces of Bundler & RubyGems that should get cleaned up... hopefully soon
- Investigated the provenance and current usage of RubyGems' vendored certificate store

## Marty Haught

### Organizations

Our demo with the AWS SDK team went well.  The AWS team provided lots of good feedback, notably about the use of language, documentation, and location of form elements, and suggested adding the ability to add Organization Profile pictures. Overall, the AWS SDK team was very positive and strongly desires to be the first Organization (called out that they want ID 1) in Production.  This did add some follow-on work that pushed out the start of the SSO project.

Additionally, there was one feature request that could be ideal candidates for a paid tier.  The ability to reserve a gem name prefix, such as ‘aws-sdk-*’, so only their organization could have gems that match that prefix pattern. 

### Security Working Group

Following up on the momentum from RubyKaigi, Marty worked with a few others on selecting a platform for this forum.  We selected discourse.org, which Rails Core actively uses for its forum needs.  It also happens to be built on the Ruby stack, and the founders are supportive of open source so we’re able to use this free of charge.  Marty configured the instance at [rubysecurity.discourse.group](https://rubysecurity.discourse.group) and sent out invites to around 10 initial members.  This group includes members of RubyGems, Ruby Core, Rails Core, and several large Ruby companies.   The plan is to allow people to join while Marty travels to Europe for two conferences, before proceeding.  The goal is to schedule our first meeting in July or August after ironing out how we work as a group.

### Package Repository Security Assessment

We conducted an internal assessment of our progress towards the [Principles for Package Repository Security](https://repos.openssf.org/principles-for-package-repository-security).  We will use this assessment to draft a proposal for funding.  Samuel and I talked about bringing this up with the Security Software Repos WG on level 3 as an attainable goal. 

### RubyGems.org Policies

After completing a 60 day period for review and comment, we finalized our rollout plan.  We received only 2 comments during that period.  We settled on June 4th as the date when the policies would take effect.  An important part of our rollout plan was not to strictly enforce active users to acknowledge the policies or lose certain abilities.  We have enough users who only interact via the CLI or automation that we didn’t want to disrupt their workflows.  The notifications for the adoption of policies have been through the UI, email, and our newsletter. It’s very likely that many CLI users would not be aware.  We discussed this with counsel.  We will proceed with aggressively presenting the new policies through the UI.  We’ll assess the percentage of policy acknowledgment we have with our user base before taking further action.

On May 29th, we sent out an email to all users of RubyGems.org with this information.  This spurred two others to review and offer their thoughts on the policies.  In hindsight, we should have sent this email earlier in the process.  It kept sliding due to other priorities for our time.  The overall sentiment has been positive so I expect the rollout to go smoothly.    

One side note, the work of seeing these policies through has taken much more time and legal back and forth than I expected.  It’s been good but we’ll be going on our 6th month with this effort!


## Infrastructure Security - SSO

This project has not started yet.  The other project is nearly done so June is the estimated start date.
