# Update 2025-12

## Board presentation

Marty's presentation to the board was well-received.  He covered 2025 accomplishments, the current challenges around RubyGems governance and control, and how to move forward to rebuild trust and confidence in our stewardship of the Ruby package ecosystem.  In 2026, he proposed moving to a leaner staffing model with 3 full-time employees providing the core service team for RubyGems.org and no longer relying on contractors for critical maintenance and operations.  Instead, the team will leverage in-kind and volunteer engineers to round out the on-call rotation to keep it sustainable.

## Security Engineer

We have opened the [job posting](https://rubycentral.teamtailor.com/jobs/6767369-senior-security-engineer) for a Senior Security Engineer and promoted it on social media.  We will start interviews in early January.

## Cloud Audit

Ruby Central is working with [Cloud Security Partners](https://www.cloudsecuritypartners.com/) to conduct a comprehensive security audit of the AWS infrastructure that underpins RubyGems.org.  Given the recent operational transition, Ruby Central wanted a thorough review of our cloud configuration to identify risks, misconfigurations, and gaps in access controls, logging, encryption, and operational practices. We expect to complete the audit in January and will immediately address any significant security gaps.  Additionally, we plan to publish the results to bolster confidence in the security and operations of RubyGems.org.

## Open Source Governance

Progress continues on a governance proposal intended to clarify roles, responsibilities, and decision-making boundaries around the RubyGems and Bundler.  It is currently under public review as a [pull request](https://github.com/ruby/rubygems/pull/9187).  We expect this process to be resolved in January.

The draft document captures current norms between Matz, Ruby core, and Ruby Central, while explicitly separating administrative access from technical decision-making to ensure long-term sustainability and trust. This doc is provisional and will be replaced by a long-term version once we have time to iterate on it without a tight deadline.

## Fosdem

Marty will be attending FOSDEM at the end of January to participate in the Package Management track and the OpenSSF Package Manager Security Forum.  The timing is great as he can meet with his peers in other ecosystems to gain insight on how to navigate governance and community involvement topics.
