# Update 2023-03

## 1) Infrastructure

### 1.1 TestSwarm

The TestSwarm service is used to perform automatic browser testing for jQuery.

This month the new TestSwarm server was put into service after the existing database was migrated to it. The service also had a few minor code changes to make it easier to automate the provisioning of new servers in the future.

### 1.2 Blog sites

The blogs service hosts WordPress sites for [blog.jquery.com](https://blog.jquery.com), blog.jqueryui.com, and blog.jquerymobile.com.

* This month a new server for the blogs sites was created with Puppet fully managing the WordPress installation, site creation, and our themes/plugins.
* Data from the existing blog server was copied to the new server. The new server still needs to be tested properly before traffic can be switched over and the old server removed.

### 1.3 Documentation sites

The jQuery project has several documentation sites which are currently hosted on a multisite WordPress server with their content managed in Git repositories.  They are running on an older WordPress version and have a fair bit of customization specific to jQuery.com sites.

New staging servers for hosting the WordPress-based documentation sites, and for building the content updates from Git were created. As a part of this migration, the setup is being changed to use up-to-date WordPress installations managed by Puppet as individual standalone sites, instead of a single multisite WordPress instance. This reduces the service's complexity. This work started this month and is still ongoing.

### 1.4 Misc cleanup

Pruning of backups for servers decommissioned between 2013 and 2022, has decreased Tarsnap annual costs from $223 to $94.

## 2) Ecosystem Risk Audit

* Survey Instrument Design. IDC survey to understand the biggest implementation conduits and potential threat vectors for jQuery. Using this knowledge, we will prioritize the best paths forward for the subsequent Web Modernization Campaign.
* Workshops held with IDC, jQuery maintainers and OpenJS Foundation team to finalize target respondents and survey questions.
* Target: 500 respondents equally surveyed from the UK, Germany, France, United States and Canada.

## 2) Web Modernization Campaign

* Plan to build a sustainable model to reduce the footprint of legacy jQuery code through an integrated communications campaign.
* Informed and reviewed communications agency proposals.
