# FreeBSD Update - November 2025

## Immediate tasks

This month, the progress on the project has been communicated to the most
relevant team within the FreeBSD Project: the srcmgr committee.

The list of priorities was updated as a result, with the most pressing tasks
consisting of:

- Formalizing the respective maintainers for the different parts of the code,
- Keeping track of current versions and updates from upstream,
- Providing machine-readable files and tools for the above,
- Integrating more test suites from third-party dependencies,
- Documenting the respective import procedures for new versions.

The database and tooling in the
[alpha-omega-beach-cleaning](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/alpha-omega-beach-cleaning)
Git repository have already been updated in this regard, as documented below.

Collaboration is still ongoing with the Open Regulatory Compliance Working Group
(ORC WG) on one hand, and with the Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) initiative
in particular. 

## Timeline

The current timeline looks as follows:
 
| Phase                          | Start date | End date   | Status  |
| ------------------------------ | ---------- | ---------- | ------- |
| Inventory of dependencies      | 25/08/2025 | 07/09/2025 | Done    |
| Security risk assessments      | 08/09/2025 | 21/09/2025 | Done    |
| Propose list of priorities     | 22/09/2025 | 28/09/2025 | Done    |
| Plan the respective actions    | 29/09/2025 | 26/10/2025 | Done    |
| Formalize code owners          | 27/10/2025 | 30/11/2025 | Ongoing |
| Integrate review methodologies |      _continuous_      ||         |
| Plan execution & coordination  |      _continuous_      ||         |
| Final report                   | 09/03/2026 | 30/03/2026 |         |

### Task: Inventory of dependencies

From the collaboration with the SBOM initiative, it became clear that the
inventory of dependencies really should not be limited to the third-party
software found in the project.

This is because the dependency tree for a given component may include a mix of
internal and external code bases, and they all need to be treated equally when
tracing provenance, e.g., when generating SBOM files.

The inventory of software used in the base system will therefore be extended
with internal components as well.

The
[corresponding](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/alpha-omega-beach-cleaning/blob/main/dependencies.md)
[deliverables](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/alpha-omega-beach-cleaning/blob/main/security.md)
are still re-generated regularly from the [YAML
database](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/alpha-omega-beach-cleaning/blob/main/database.yml),
as before.

### Task: List of priorities

The list of priorities has turned into a different approach, with a broader
focus on maintainership, testing, tooling, and documentation.

The most critical components remain on top of the list while applying these
priorities; LLVM made its way into the list, when compared to last month:

1. libfido2, OpenSSL, WireGuard, and ZFS (score: 4)
2. ACPI, BearSSL, Kerberos, LLVM, libcbor, Lua, OpenPAM, OpenSSH, and zlib
   (score: 3)

### Task: Plan the respective actions

The metrics proposed by the source management team (srcmgr@) remain relevant:

* Version gap,
* Time since last import, (if not forked)
* Presence and re-use of a test suite,
* Distance from upstream... (size of the patch)

Significant progress has been made with the automation of version tracking, and
is now [part of the main branch of
development](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/alpha-omega-beach-cleaning/tree/main/src/versions).
This collection of programs can obtain the current version programmatically for
over 50 third-party components of the base system.

### Task: Formalizing the code owners

The database and tooling have been extended to provide the following two
features:

```shell-session
$ aobc-tool generate codeowners && cat CODEOWNERS
[...]
# pf(4)
/sys/netpfil/pf glebius@FreeBSD.org kp@FreeBSD.org
[...]
# OpenSSL
/crypto/openssl khorben@FreeBSD.org ngie@FreeBSD.org
[...]
# OpenPAM
/contrib/openpam des@FreeBSD.org
[...]
# pjdfstest
/contrib/pjdfstest asomers@FreeBSD.org ngie@FreeBSD.org pjd@FreeBSD.org @FreeBSD/test
```

As shown here, a file compliant with [GitHub's CODEOWNERS
format](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/customizing-your-repository/about-code-owners)
can be generated from the database. It uses e-mail addresses from the FreeBSD
developers, which avoids a problem encountered in past attempts where usernames
on GitHub did not necessarily match the developer aliases used in FreeBSD
Project.

In addition, it also supports teams established within the project (e.g.,
`@FreeBSD/test` for `pjdfstest`). While there may be discrepancies between
FreeBSD's own teams and their setup on GitHub, the official teams are currently
only relevant on the side of the FreeBSD Project, and their definition on GitHub
can be managed by the FreeBSD Project. (Unlike the mapping between developer
aliases and GitHub usernames)

And then, in a similar fashion:

```shell-session
$ ./src/aobc-tool blame contrib/llvm-project
Owner(s) for LLVM: (contrib/llvm-project in contrib/llvm-project)
- dim@
- emaste@
- jhb@
```

As illustrated here, it is also possible to pick a part of the FreeBSD tree, and
instantly get to know the developer(s) in charge.

