# FreeBSD Update - September 2025

## Immediate tasks

Two major tasks were tackled this month, as per the timeline proposed for the
project:

* Inventory of dependencies
* Assessment of the corresponding security risks

The next task, planning the respective actions, will effectively start in
October.

## Timeline

The current timeline looks as follows:
 
| Phase                          | Start date | End date   | Status  |
| ------------------------------ | ---------- | ---------- | ------- |
| Inventory of dependencies      | 25/08/2025 | 07/09/2025 | Done    |
| Security risk assessments      | 08/09/2025 | 21/09/2025 | Done    |
| Propose list of priorities     | 22/09/2025 | 28/09/2025 | Ongoing |
| Plan the respective actions    | 29/09/2025 | 26/10/2025 |         |
| Formalize code owners          | 27/10/2025 | 30/11/2025 |         |
| Integrate review methodologies |      _continuous_      ||         |
| Plan execution & coordination  |      _continuous_      ||         |
| Final report                   | 09/03/2026 | 30/03/2026 |         |

### Task: Inventory of dependencies

A first inventory of third-party software used in the base system was gathered,
and sorted into the following categories:

* Build dependency,
* Boot-time/firmware,
* Kernel code,
* Toolchain or run-time support,
* System or network service,
* Libraries,
* Cryptography, or
* End-user applications.

The [corresponding
deliverable](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/alpha-omega-beach-cleaning/blob/main/security.md)
is now generated from a [YAML
database](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/alpha-omega-beach-cleaning/blob/main/database.yml),
also meant to be used as a reference for the subsequent tasks in this project.

This task re-used and aims at completing existing documentation from the FreeBSD
project, as can be found in the
[MAINTAINERS](https://github.com/FreeBSD/freebsd-src/blob/main/MAINTAINERS)
file.

Some software is written by official FreeBSD developers but primarily hosted or
maintained outside of the FreeBSD project itself; these dependencies are meant
to be included in this list as well, but are more difficult to identify.

### Task: Security risk assessments

The software identified in the list of priorities was rated according to a list
of metrics: impact on developer systems or on the build infrastructure, on the
integrity of the hardware or at the Operating System level (e.g., kernel or
run-time), on network exposure, on the security of operations, on authentication
capabilities, or more generally on the user applications.

The most critical components identified so far are ZFS, WireGuard, OpenSSL, and
libfido2.

### Task: List of priorities

This task has not started yet.
