# FreeBSD Update - October 2025

## Immediate tasks

One more major task was tackled this month, as per the timeline proposed for the
project:

* Propose list of priorities

The next task, planning the respective actions, is being coordinated with two
committees of the FreeBSD Project (secteam@ and srcmgr@) and still ongoing.

Connections have also been made with two other initiatives, where collaboration
is believed to be mutually beneficial: the Open Regulatory Compliance Working
Group (ORC WG) on one hand, and the Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) initiative.
Both are relevant to the new Cyber Resilience Act (CRA) from the European
Union, and rely on the same information gathered as part of this project.

## Timeline

The current timeline looks as follows:
 
| Phase                          | Start date | End date   | Status  |
| ------------------------------ | ---------- | ---------- | ------- |
| Inventory of dependencies      | 25/08/2025 | 07/09/2025 | Done    |
| Security risk assessments      | 08/09/2025 | 21/09/2025 | Done    |
| Propose list of priorities     | 22/09/2025 | 28/09/2025 | Done    |
| Plan the respective actions    | 29/09/2025 | 26/10/2025 | Ongoing |
| Formalize code owners          | 27/10/2025 | 30/11/2025 |         |
| Integrate review methodologies |      _continuous_      ||         |
| Plan execution & coordination  |      _continuous_      ||         |
| Final report                   | 09/03/2026 | 30/03/2026 |         |

### Task: Inventory of dependencies

The inventory of third-party software used in the base system was completed,
according to new information obtained from other FreeBSD developers.

The
[corresponding](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/alpha-omega-beach-cleaning/blob/main/dependencies.md)
[deliverables](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/alpha-omega-beach-cleaning/blob/main/security.md)
were re-generated accordingly from the [YAML
database](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/alpha-omega-beach-cleaning/blob/main/database.yml),
as before.

### Task: List of priorities

A first list of priorities was communicated to the security team (secteam@)
where the most critical components identified were:

1. libfido2, OpenSSL, WireGuard, and ZFS (score: 4)
2. ACPI, BearSSL, Kerberos, libcbor, Lua, OpenPAM, OpenSSH, and zlib (score: 3)

### Task: Plan the respective actions

In response, additional metrics have been proposed by the source management team
(srcmgr@) and will be investigated in November:

* version gap,
* time since last import, (if not forked)
* presence and re-use of a test suite,
* distance from upstream... (size of the patch)

An automated mechanism to identify the current version of the dependencies
installed is [currently being
implemented](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/alpha-omega-beach-cleaning/tree/khorben/versions/src/versions).

This is expected to help determine the actual plan, together with the relevant
committees of the FreeBSD Project.

### Collaboration: CRA and SBOM

The community around the CRA has now started to focus on self-attestations, in
order to help Stewards for Open Source projects to comply with their
responsibilities, and to communicate efficiently with any manufacturer
downstream.

In practice, this is expected to involve the creation of artefacts called SBOMs,
a machine-readable inventory listing the components of a system, along with
their respective provenance, dependencies and consumers, point of contact,
licence, version and patch number, etc.

This information is already being gathered as part of the beach cleaning
project. The program converting the current database into the deliverables for
this project has been extended in order to generate files in the [pkg-config
format](https://people.freedesktop.org/~dbn/pkg-config-guide.html), to then be
converted in the [SPDX format](https://spdx.dev) with the
[bomtool](https://ariadne.space/2025/02/08/c-sboms-and-how-pkgconf.html)
utility.

This work is already taking place within the FreeBSD community for its
[ports](https://ports.freebsd.org/cgi/ports.cgi) but a gap subsisted for the base
system. The outcome of this contribution is relevant to this gap. The generation
of the corresponding artefacts is still in-progress, but can be found here:

* [pkgconfig
   files](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/alpha-omega-beach-cleaning/blob/main/pkgconfig)
* [SPDX
   files](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/alpha-omega-beach-cleaning/blob/main/spdx)
