# FreeBSD Update - December 2025

## Immediate tasks

This month, the code owners identified have all been contacted, and many of them
confirmed or corrected the information collected.

Collaboration with the Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) initiative has also
been very fruitful, and led to significant improvements:

- Simplification of the database format
- Imported information for the base system
- Updated the tooling according to the new format
- Addition of commands and reporting to `aobc-tool`
- Improvement of the CI/CD coverage as GitHub workflow
- Perspective for future evolution and integration of the tool

The database and tooling are still found in the
[alpha-omega-beach-cleaning](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/alpha-omega-beach-cleaning)
Git repository. The progress made on the project was presented during the last
public meeting of 2025, on December 3rd.

Collaboration is ongoing with the Open Regulatory Compliance Working Group (ORC
WG) as well.

## Timeline

The current timeline looks as follows:
 
| Phase                          | Start date | End date   | Status  |
| ------------------------------ | ---------- | ---------- | ------- |
| Inventory of dependencies      | 25/08/2025 | 07/09/2025 | Done    |
| Security risk assessments      | 08/09/2025 | 21/09/2025 | Done    |
| Propose list of priorities     | 22/09/2025 | 28/09/2025 | Done    |
| Plan the respective actions    | 29/09/2025 | 26/10/2025 | Done    |
| Formalize code owners          | 27/10/2025 | 30/11/2025 | Done    |
| Integrate review methodologies |      _continuous_      ||         |
| Plan execution & coordination  |      _continuous_      ||         |
| Final report                   | 09/03/2026 | 30/03/2026 |         |

### Task: Inventory of dependencies

From the collaboration with the SBOM initiative, it became clear that the
inventory of dependencies really should not be limited to the third-party
software found in the project. The database now also refers internal components,
allowing more accurate and complete list of dependencies to be tracked in the
files generated in SBOM format.

The
[corresponding](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/alpha-omega-beach-cleaning/blob/main/dependencies.md)
[deliverables](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/alpha-omega-beach-cleaning/blob/main/security.md)
have been re-generated regularly from the [YAML
database](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/alpha-omega-beach-cleaning/blob/main/database.yml),
as per usual.

### Task: List of priorities

The list of priorities has stabilized, with few changes compared to last month
except for the addition of two "ghost" dependencies:

1. (Git,) libfido2, OpenSSL, (pkg,) WireGuard, zlib, and ZFS (score: 4)
2. ACPI, BearSSL, Kerberos, LLVM, libcbor, Lua, OpenPAM, OpenSSH, and zstd
   (score: 3)

Git is a significant "ghost" dependency, which was added as a third-party
component to the database. While it is a mandatory component de facto for
development, no complete implementation has been imported in the base system.
The developers are expected to use a package instead (from the ports
collection).

There is an ongoing discussion whether to import Git into the base system and
when, and then which implementation it should be. [Got](https://gameoftrees.org)
has matured and could offer a basic but functional alternative to Git, with a
license more in line with the rest of the system.

The situation reminds that of the package manager,
[pkg](https://github.com/FreeBSD/pkg), a "ghost" dependency too, but managed by
the FreeBSD Project. It is hosted on GitHub though, and therefore outside of the
base system. While its current deployment model seems to work well (binary
download on first use) it could make sense to import this project as well.

Finally, zlib has been bumped alongside the most critical components, due to its
integration into the kernel, while zstd is now considered critical as well.

### Task: Plan the respective actions

The metrics proposed by the source management team (srcmgr@) remain relevant; as
a reminder:

* Version gap,
* Time since last import, (if not forked)
* Presence and re-use of a test suite,
* Distance from upstream... (size of the patch)

The initiative around the automation of version tracking has now reached a
blocker, and is stuck around 50 third-party components implemented out of 75.
However, the [CI/CD workflow on
GitHub](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/alpha-omega-beach-cleaning/blob/main/.github/workflows/freebsdvm-go-ci_ubuntu-latest.yml)
is now setup to run FreeBSD instead of Linux, allowing it to complete as
intended.

This task is a strong candidate for more complete implementation in 2026.

### Task: Formalizing the code owners

The updated database and tooling have been presented to the respective code
owners identified, whom have all been contacted within this month.

The feedback received has been very positive, including a suggestion to add the
tool developed to FreeBSD's port collection. However, the current consensus
together with the SBOM initiative is to rewrite the tool from Go to Lua, which
would allow a direct integration into FreeBSD's base system.

The database and the tool could then become as essential brick of the system,
not only for tracking dependencies but also to facilitate compliance with the
European Union's CRA regulation, for every user of FreeBSD.
