Trusted Publishing is live and in production. Capslock work is beginning. Vulnerability surfacing planning continues. Rust TUF key choices on implementation, quorums and infrastructure are being made. The Rust Project is a CNA. And more...

## Trusted Publishing

Trusted publishing is live and being used in production 🎉. Tobias implemented everything from the publishing pipeline to the user interface. Marco implemented the GitHub Action to allow Trusted Publishing in CI/CD workflows.

Read all about it (and other crates.io things) on the [Rust Project blog](https://blog.rust-lang.org/2025/07/11/crates-io-development-update-2025-07/).

## Capslock

Adam refactored the initial tracing prototype used to map standard library calls to capabilities to be more robust for scenarios not required by the Rust test suite (mostly around multi-threading and nested forks of child processes), thereby making it potentially useful for future use as a runtime scanner to complement the planned compile-time capability analysis.

## Vulnerability Surfacing

Adam, Joel and Walter have initiated conversations with a potential engineer to do this work. We plan on all meeting in early August to discuss details and ways to hopefully move forward.

## Other Engineering

### TUF Implementation

There is consensus that the TAP-16 Merkle Tree implementation of TUF for crates.io is the leading contender, with technical choices pending on the best balance and optimization for specific performance needs. Work is currently on track to have a MVP public implementation by early August, which optimizations will be tested against.

On the higher level grounds of quorums and infrastructure, discussions led to a consensus on maintaining a top-level quorum, but removing intermediate levels for simplicity. The root quorum shall be the Rust Project Infrastructure team for initial deployment; roles under this quorum will be nightly, releases, rustup and crates.io; each one of these keys will be a single live key which resides in KMS. KMS API’s will be leveraged to perform live signing for all actions of those roles (new releases and crates). The hierarchy initially proposed in the RFC will be removed in favor of this approach.

More details from Walter [here](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/issues/271#issuecomment-3133590786).

### Crate Scanning

Adam took the new-and-improved Capslock process tracing code and started using it in conjunction with [bubblewrap](https://github.com/containers/bubblewrap) to perform low overhead scanning of crate build and test behavior, especially around filesystem and network access. (Previous prototypes used Firecracker, but using bubblewrap allows for a smaller scanner surface area to be exposed to the crate being scanned, and also allows for simpler instrumentation.)

Adam also wrote a [new wrapper](https://crates.io/crates/mojique) around the venerable libmagic to make it more easily used in multi-threaded and asynchronous environments.

## Announcements and Community

### Rust Project is a CNA

The Rust Project is now a [CVE Numbering Authority (CNA)](https://www.cve.org/Media/News/item/news/2025/07/22/The-Rust-Project-Added-as-CNA) for assets maintained by the Rust Project. The CNA Root is being graciously hosted by Red Hat.

### Rust Foundation Technical Report Coming Soon

The Rust Foundation is publishing its annual Technology Report soon. The report details the Foundation's major technology accomplishments, areas of focus, and supporters/collaborators.
