Verification and mirroring officially became an official Rust Project goal for 2025H1. We began to investigate Capslock as it pertains to the Rust ecosystem. There was a meeting of the Safety Critical Rust Consortium.

## Engineering

### Verification and Mirroring Rust Project Goal

After some back and forth, the [crates.io verification and mirroring goal](https://rust-lang.github.io/rust-project-goals/2025h1/verification-and-mirroring.html) has been approved for 2025H1. Walter, helping lead this effort, and others, will work towards consensus with Rust teams on an RFC for cryptographic verification and mirroring of releases and crates.io, and provide *experimental* infrastructure demonstrating the ability to mirror crates.io and verify downloads from a mirror. This will include a proof of concept for a secure chain-of-trust to the Rust Project, via a quorum-based mechanism, and methods to verify singular Rust crates, their singular index entries, as well as the index and the artifacts as a whole.

Walter has already met with the Rust Project Infra team to start discussing the infrastructure needs in order to meet this goal.

### CapsLock Investigation

Walter Pearce has started to spend sometime thinking about [Capslock](https://github.com/google/capslock) as it pertains to the Rust ecosystem. Currently, Capslock is a capability analysis CLI for Go packages that informs users of which privileged operations a given package can access. In order to make this capability for Rust, Walter is beginning by understanding the level of granularity we want. We could utilize [Painter](https://github.com/rustfoundation/painter) data, standard library functions, etc. What does the landscape look like as it pertains to Rust and Capslock? That's the first question we are trying to answer.

## Announcements and Community

### Safety Critical Rust Consortium

The second full [Safety Critical Rust Consortium](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium) meeting took place on February 19, 2025, in London, prior to Rust Nation UK. Joel Marcey, who emceed the event, and Walter Pearce attended, representing the Rust Foundation.

The consortium made progress on plans for delivering assets, guidance, and content for Rust developers working on safety-critical applications. We also announced to consortium members that Ferrous Systems has committed to contributing the Ferrocene Language Specification (FLS) to the Rust Project.

The next meeting is tentatively scheduled for sometime during Rust Week in May.

### crates.io Development Update

Tobias Bieniek has written a [crates.io development update blog post](https://blog.rust-lang.org/2025/02/05/crates-io-development-update.html), sharing about six months of progress on crates.io work since the last update. Information about crate deletion functionality, OpenAPI work, publish notifications and more. 

### Rust Specification Project Goal

There is an official [Rust Project goal to publish the first version of the Ferrocene Language Specification (FLS)](https://rust-lang.github.io/rust-project-goals/2025h1/spec-fls-publish.html) as an official part of the Rust Project with Rust Project processes.

### Rust Nation 2025

[Rust Nation](https://www.rustnationuk.com/) 2025 was held in London on 19-20 February 2025. Adam Harvey and Marco Ieni both presented. Adam presented on crate security, specifically understanding the security and trustworthiness of crate dependencies and the tools and techniques that are available to understand dependencies. Marco spoke on release-plz, a Rust open-source project that automates the tasks to publish crates.

## Threat Modeling

Moved the links to these to the [README](./README.md) for persistent access.