October 2025 saw the beginning of the work around surfacing vulnerabilities on crates.io with an RFC being written and produced. We also helped with a response to Tarmageddon by running an analysis across crates.io. The Foundation also held its annual staff offsite for strategy discussions, where security was a key part.

## Trusted Publishing

Work continues on Gitlab support for Trusted Publishing.

## Capslock

Walter and Adam had a brainstorming session around Capslock. This Alpha-Omega funded project is to build out a Rust prototype of [Google’s Capslock project](https://github.com/google/capslock), which aims to analyze the system capabilities required by crates and binaries using a mixture of static and dynamic analysis, and then output a language-agnostic format that can be used by downstream tooling.

The belief, with a small amount of extra work, that they can turn the Capslock JSON format into seccomp syscall filters that can be used by container orchestrators and runners to enforce the previous analysis and (hopefully) prevent malware after dependency upgrades.

Adam is going to explore this and this could lead to something interesting to talk about down the line.

## Vulnerability Surfacing

Dirkjan has begun work on surfacing vulnerabilities on crates.io. An [official RFC has been written](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3872) and is now live. The general consensus thus far seems to indicate that people are supportive of the idea. Dirkjan is starting implementation work in parallel on that positive assumption while the RFC continues and eventually moves into the FCP phase.

## Other Engineering

### Implementing TUF

Walter continues to implement a TUF prototype, moving beyond TUF for crates, but moving towards full TUF support for Rust releases as well.

### Future of crates.io

On the heels of the joint [statement](https://rustfoundation.org/media/rust-foundation-signs-joint-statement-on-open-source-infrastructure-stewardship/) of open source infrastructure stewardship, at our Foundation staff offsite, we had a brainstorming session around the future of crates.io given its continued rapid growth and usage, and potential ways to make it sustainable indefinitely. We will present what we think are practical and amenable ideas soon.

## Announcements and Community

### Tarmageddon Vulnerability Response

A vulnerability was found in `async-tar` by [Edera](https://edera.dev/stories/tarmageddon) dubbed Tarmageddon. Adam ran an analysis across crates.io and confirmed no crates exhibited the exploit (crates are tar files). We also confirmed that crates.io was not vulnerable.

Adam was also inspired by [Seth Larson's paper on zip and tar hardening](https://alpha-omega.dev/wp-content/uploads/sites/22/2025/10/ao_wp_102725a.pdf) to start analysing how the Rust ecosystem of `tar` crates handle various edge cases, with a view to both looking for bugs and vulnerabilities, and also to participate in developing best practices around what subset of tar features should be supported by package registries.

### Phishing Attempts Aftermath

Walter wrote an [after action report](https://hackmd.io/@cWcJa4-JQNOtacfKywdqxA/Sk57Hmn2xl) for the phishing attempts that occurred in September.

### Infrastructure Q3 Report and Q4 Plans

Marco [wrote](https://blog.rust-lang.org/inside-rust/2025/10/16/infrastructure-team-q3-recap-and-q4-plan/) up a Q3 report for Rust Infrastructure and plans for Q4.

### C++/Rust Interop

Jon been involved in two proposals for the C++ standardization committee (WG21) which will be presented at the upcoming meeting the first week of November:

[]"A Lifetime-Management Primitive for Trivially Relocatable Types"](https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2025/p3858r0.pdf) aims to improve the Rust usability for a new category of types defined in the C++26 standard

["Safety Strategy Requirements for C++"](https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2025/p3874r0.pdf) is an appear for C++ to set a direction for building a new language subset to enable safety-by-construction akin to default, safe Rust.

### Rust Foundation Annual Offsite Strategy Meeting

The Rust Foundation staff met in Scotland for its annual in-person strategy session. We discussed the Foundation's three year strategy, which included how to make crates.io sustainable, ensuring hardened and secure infrastructure, and meeting and adhering to things like OpenSSF's Security Principles.
