Plenty of work on Trusted Publishing and TUF this month, with concrete implementation work being submitted for review. Also the FLS is now officially being managed by the Rust Project.

## Trusted Publishing

The proposed database layout for the Trusted Publishing implementation was reviewed and accepted by the crates.io team. The necessary database migrations were first executed on the staging environment, and later brought to production too.

Tobias implemented the first two API endpoints that will let users create and delete Trusted Publishing configurations for GitHub Actions. These can be created in a many-to-many relationship between crates and GitHub repositories.

The main token exchange API endpoint was also implemented by Tobias. The corresponding pull request is still in the process of getting thoroughly reviewed since it is the most security-critical of the new endpoints.

## Capslock

In process of determining a tactical engineering plan and what resources would be necessary to implement that plan.

## Other Engineering

### TUF Implementation Update

Walter completed three full TUF repository implementations for crates and releases using a fork of `rust-tuf`, including a vanilla repo, a succinct hashed bin repo, and a TAP-16 Merkle tree repo. All of these implementations could theoretically be upstreamed to `rust-tuf`. 

Walter has also started work on the client piece, being the `cargo` subcommand and the shared library for `rustup+cargo`.

Here are some of the numbers we are looking at, and the tradeoffs of each scheme for each repository.

*General metrics*: 
- Per artifact metadata: ~120 bytes per artifact 
- Compression ratio: Averages about 50%

*Rust Releases*:
- Artifacts: 250k artifacts (1/3 is release artifacts, 2/3 is sigs and hashes asc/sha256 files)
- Growth: Near linear, at 365components3 + release schedulecomponents3 per year.
- Update frequency: At least nightly

*Crates.io*:
- Artifacts: 1.5 million
- Growth: 50-100% yoy
- Update Frequency: Average every 3 minutes

*For releases we have*:

Vanilla TUF
- Snapshot size: 30mb 
- Download: 15mb per repo update

*For creates.io we have*:

Vanilla TUF
- Snapshot size: 300mb 
- Download: 150mb per repo update

Hashed Bins
- These are configurable based on the bit-length we bin on. We devide based on hash bits, with 16k bins on 250k artifacts for example, we get ~2kb per bin download. This number increases as the bins updated increases; so download scales with time-since-last-update. For crates.io, this gets us in the 20kb range per bin.

Merkle Tree  (TAP-16)
- This is a fixed growth update. We increase to approximately 300 bytes per artifact change, but limit downloads to updated artifact tree paths. So liked hashed bins, the download size increases with size but only linearly with updates to the repository with no overhead of unrelated artifacts. This means we linearly increase our update over time, but remaining at an as-needed update.

Drawbacks:

- Vanilla TUF is out (we already knew this), its too big for both releases and crates.io
- Hashed bins: This is the solution `pypy` is current exploring and using. It is simpler, but the overhead grows faster over time. 
- Merkle Trees: Implementation is more complex, and requires more end-system computation. Our repo will be a bespoke implementation (But following a TAP) which has no matching implementation in other languages (TUF go and python would not be able to access our repo).

### Reducing Security Footprint on Local Laptops

There was a discussion at Rust Week to investigate running `terraform apply` from a third party service (e.g. terraform cloud), so that there are less privileges on individual laptops. 

We are generally in favor of exploring cloud-based deployment platforms (e.g. Terraform Cloud) to:
- Reduce the need for admin credentials on personal laptops.
- Enable us to periodically plan/apply configurations to detect drifts and API changes.
- Enable better collaboration via PR previews.

## Announcements and Community

### FLS Officially Transferred to the Rust Project

Building upon the [announcement](https://rustfoundation.org/media/ferrous-systems-donates-ferrocene-language-specification-to-rust-project/) that Ferrous Systems was transferring the Ferrocene Language Specification (FLS) to the Rust Project, the GitHub bits have been officially [moved over](https://github.com/rust-lang/fls).

Now that the FLS is being managed by the Rust Project, the `t-spec` team, in at least short-term concert with Ferrous, is going to work to continue updating the FLS as appropriate while also working on a long-term integration vision with the Rust Reference.

### Rust Week

Much of the Rust Foundation staff was in the Utrecht, Netherlands the week of May 12th for [Rust Week](https://rustweek.org/). Rust Week included the RustNL conference and the Rust Project All-Hands. Some great conversations around security, safety critical Rust and the specification occurred.

It was also the [10th anniversary of Rust](https://rustfoundation.org/media/10-years-of-stable-rust-an-infrastructure-story/).

### Safety Critical Rust Consortium Meeting

During Rust Week, the third full Safety Critical Rust Consortium [meeting](https://github.com/rustfoundation/safety-critical-rust-consortium/blob/main/meetings/2025-05-15/minutes.md) was held. 

### C++/Rust Interop Collaboration

At Rust Week, Jon organized and facilitated a meeting between members of the Rust Project and the WG21 (C++ Committee) interested in interop. This was an initial discussion to create meaningful relationships, and the hope is that this sparks further collaboration between the two parties in order to provide an interop solution helpful to both communities.

## Threat Modeling

Moved the links to these to the [README](./README.md) for persistent access.