March had focused work on collaboration with Google on leaked crates.io tokens, TUF implementation progress, the Ferrocene Language Specification being donated to the Rust Project, and more.

## Engineering

### Leaked Token Scanning

The team behind Google’s [deps.dev](https://deps.dev) are starting to scan packages across the varied language and package ecosystems they support for leaked secrets, and have kindly offered to start sending leaked crates.io tokens to crates.io so they can be reported to their owners and revoked automatically, much as we already do for tokens found in GitHub repositories. This should roll out in early April.

### Malicious Crates

Rust’s security response team received a report about a malicious crate that attempted to exfiltrate the host and user name of the system that was building the crate. The security response team dealt with the crate efficiently, and we grabbed a copy of the crate files to add to our ever-growing corpus of malware.

### TUF MVP

Walter has implemented a “vanilla” (sans TAP-16/Merkle Tree) implementation of [TUF](https://theupdateframework.org) for the crates.io repository and a year of historic Rust releases to prove as a POC. This implementation will be shared among the Rust project for review, testing and discussion.

### Painter Analysis Crate

The analysis engine and LLVM integrations of [Painter](https://github.com/rustfoundation/painter) have been broken off into a separate library crate, allowing for it to be leveraged by further analysis tooling for the public discussed below.

### Security Analysis Tooling

With the [announced departure](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/146229-wg-secure-code/topic/Stepping.20back.20from.20RustSec/with/505528917) of a key maintainer of [cargo-audit]( https://github.com/rustsec/rustsec), Walter and Adam are investigating how they may be able to pick up the slack. They are looking at adding optional features for some security analysis across the Rust ecosystem, to enable users to do it locally. Some examples are git provenance of dependencies, FFI detection, call graph analysis for RustSec vulnerabilities, CVE detection for sys crates, and capabilities. They are performing POC implementations of command line tools for end users to leverage their work.

These features could potentially be embedded directly as a part of cargo-audit, or potentially via a separate tool.

## Announcements and Community

### FLS Donated To Rust Project

The Rust Foundation is excited to [announce](https://rustfoundation.org/media/ferrous-systems-donates-ferrocene-language-specification-to-rust-project/) that Ferrous Systems has agreed to contribute its Ferrocene Language Specification (FLS) to the Rust Project. This generous donation will provide a clearer path to delivering an official Rust specification. It will also empower the Rust Project to oversee its ongoing evolution, providing confidence to companies and individuals already relying on the FLS, and marking a major milestone for the Rust ecosystem.

### Typosquatting Blog Post

As part of its quarterly blog post series for Alpha-Omega, Adam [wrote](https://alpha-omega.dev/blog/package-typosquatting-detection-in-rustdusttrustrut/) about the history of Typomania, a tool that detects potential typosquatting attacks on crates.io. 

### TUF Blog Series

A blog series has been written and will be released over the month of April discussing what TUF (The Update Framework) is, the current implementation discussed in the RFC, and the details of how that works for the Rust project. 

### hello-virus Crate

It was brought to our attention that a crate called hello-virus had been uploaded to crates.io. After analysis, it was determined that this was a white-hackerish type of crate that basically does nothing bad, but rather is there to test and see who may actually download such a crate. The crate plays an mp3 - “Hello this is hello virus. Your computer is now infected with a virus”. We are leaving the crate there as a cautionary tale.

## Threat Modeling

Moved the links to these to the [README](./README.md) for persistent access.

