December was a bit of a slower month due to a lot of PTO and holidays, but some key accomplishments actually did occur. We have an initial `cargo-capslock` implementation. The vulnerability surfacing RFC has been accepted and the security tab continues to be implemented.

## Trusted Publishing

No update this month. See [November update](./update-2025-11.md) for latest information.

## Capslock

Adam developed a tool called [`cargo-capslock`](https://github.com/RustFoundation/cargo-capslock/) to perform both static and runtime capability analysis on Rust binaries.

Here are some videos exploring both the static and runtime capabilities.

- [static](https://drive.google.com/file/d/17wSNOlrwW3Qa8q1o0UsS38gO95rkKizX/view?usp=sharing)
- [dynamic](https://drive.google.com/file/d/13OmJsOy5I4HBfPXyt-xiAbOwbYDqdXyM/view?usp=sharing)

While we don’t expect the production version of this tool to look exactly like it does now, implementing this has allowed us to explore the space and this is informing that broader work in turn.

A [blog post](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dYgaRKlSoYxg0Wc5AFCXOgE1Yd_yeYePghZ7frTaGtA/) describing the implementation in a lot more detail has been submitted to Alpha-Omega for publication, probably in January.

## Vulnerability Surfacing

The vulnerability surfacing to crates.io [RFC](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3872) has been officially accepted!

The security tab [implementation](https://github.com/rust-lang/crates.io/pull/12311/) continues with reviews and feedback, providing more and more improvements before going live.

## Other Engineering

### Signing / TUF Review

Walter is working on an EOY review for the work around TUF and signing. This should be available in January.

### crates.io moving to Svelte

Tobias is migrating crates.io from EmberJS to Svelte. From a security perspective, we believe this will reduce the potential for XSS vulnerabilities that may exist in Ember add-ons, as the maintenance story of Ember ecosystem is difficult right now. (Also, the typescript integration is way better in Svelte).

### GitHub environments configured as IaC

The [`team` repo](https://github.com/rust-lang/team) now defines all the GitHub environments of the repositories of the Rust Project. This improves security, as it ensures that there are drifts in the GitHub settings due to manual changes.

### docs.rs now uses Datadog for their observability.

Led by Marco, the Infra team supported the docs-rs team to move all their metrics, dashboards and alerts from the deprecated self-hosted monitoring solution to Datadog, which is more reliable, secure and offers a better developer experience.

## Announcements and Community

### Rust Global Japan

Joel gave a presentation on the Rust Foundation's technical initiatives at Rust Global Japan.