September included RustConf 2025, expansion on Trusted Publishing, moving forward on hiring for crates.io vulnerability surfacing work, dealing with some bad actors and actions regarding phishing and malware, and more.

## Trusted Publishing

Tobias wrote a [blog post](https://alpha-omega.dev/blog/trusted-publishing-secure-rust-package-deployment-without-secrets/) for Alpha-Omega on Trusted Publishing.

Trusted Publishing configurations can now be managed with regular crates.io API tokens. This helps organizations with many projects in migrating to Trusted Publishing, because these configurations previously had to be manually created through the user interface. Instead, they can now be created by automated scripts for all crates in a workspace or repository.

Tobias has begun work on GitLab support for Trusted Publishing.

## Capslock

No relevant update for this month (due travel).

## Vulnerability Surfacing

We have agreed to hire an engineer under contract to do this work. The engineer will begin on 13 October 2025.

## Other Engineering

### wiz.io Alerting

Added additional rules and filters for current set of Wiz alerts and notifications for critical alert fidelity. Added additional resource monitoring rules and alerts for activity on various high risk assets.

### crates.io Phishing

Walter, with the great support from the crates.io team, Rust Security Response Working Group, GitHub, OpenSSF and PyPi, worked to help thwart two crates.io phishing attacks. This has spun up a series of documentation, alerting and response work for future attacks. Walter will be leading a retro on these with the crates.io team and security response working group.

### Malware Reporting

Walter, with great support from the crates.io team, Rust Security Response Working Group and the Socket Threat Research Team, took appropriate actions to mitigate reports of crate malware. `faster_log` and `async_println` were the offending crates. The unusual aspect of this is that the malware was in the crate itself, rather than being in the build script or a proc macro, which means that a victim would need to actively call the API of the crate. Most scanning currently focuses on the latter cases, since they are more dangerous and require less active user action to exploit. We are not aware of anyone impacted from this malware at this time.

A [blog post](https://blog.rust-lang.org/2025/09/24/crates.io-malicious-crates-fasterlog-and-asyncprintln/) outlining more details is available.

### rust-lang.org Now A Static Website

Up until now, the rust-lang.org website was powered by a Rust webserver deployed on Heroku, cached via AWS Cloudfront. However, the content of the website isn't dynamic, so this infrastructure was overly complex, and was making the website vulnerable to DDoS attacks. The website was migrated to a static website hosted on GitHub Pages, which makes the infrastructure simpler, cheaper, more robust and more secure.

### Securing Our Infrastructure

Thanks to Marco, Rust's critical assets (releases, crates, etc.) are now backed up, out-of-band on a different cloud service. The backup is updated daily, incrementally. Credential security measures have been taken so that a compromise on the primary assets cannot be used on the backups.

We also created multiple alerts that monitor our CDNs and report when traffic falls below pre-defined thresholds. These alerts ping the Rust Foundation engineering team, which has a runbook for incidents that includes notifying users and the community.

## Announcements and Community

### Joint Statement on Open Source Infrastructure Stewardship

Along with multiple other package ecosystems, the Rust Foundation signed a joint statement on open source infrastructure stewardship. You can see the joint statement [here](https://openssf.org/blog/2025/09/23/open-infrastructure-is-not-free-a-joint-statement-on-sustainable-stewardship/) and the Foundation's rationale for signing [here](https://rustfoundation.org/media/rust-foundation-signs-joint-statement-on-open-source-infrastructure-stewardship/).

### RustConf 2025 Completed

A successful [RustConf 2025](https://rustconf.com/) was held and completed in early September in Seattle. Be on the lookout for videos and talks on the [Rust Foundation YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@rustfoundation). You can see the opening remarks from Foundation Director and CEO Dr. Bec Rumbul [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hw_IyU4-cSQ).

### Supply Chain Security Talk

Adam gave a talk at [RustChinaConf 2025](https://rustcc.cn/2025conf/) on supply chain security, along with being on a panel with Rebecca Rumbul and others.

### Two Foundation Staff Departing

Just wanted to give a quick shout out to two departing staff, Jan David Nose, our Lead Infrastructure Engineer and Paul Lenz, our Director of Finance. The former is going the exciting startup route. The latter is riding into retirement. I cannot overstate how valuable both have been to the Foundation and we will miss them. But we also wish them the best in their new endeavors.

Read more about their farewell [here](https://rustfoundation.org/media/a-fond-farewell-to-two-rust-foundation-colleagues/).