# FreeBSD Update - February 2026

## Immediate tasks

This month, the execution and coordination phase continued, with progress on the
possible integration of the pkg package manager into the base system of FreeBSD.

Collaboration with the Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) initiative continued as
well, with the following items:

- Enrichment of the database contents
- Correction of issues with the import of spdxtool into the base system
- Assistance with the design for the generation of SBOM data in the base system

The database and tooling are still found in the
[alpha-omega-beach-cleaning](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/alpha-omega-beach-cleaning)
Git repository.

Collaboration is ongoing with the Open Regulatory Compliance Working Group (ORC
WG) as well.

## Timeline

The current timeline ahead of the last month remains as follows:

| Phase                          | Start date | End date   | Status  |
| ------------------------------ | ---------- | ---------- | ------- |
| Inventory of dependencies      | 25/08/2025 | 07/09/2025 | Done    |
| Security risk assessments      | 08/09/2025 | 21/09/2025 | Done    |
| Propose list of priorities     | 22/09/2025 | 28/09/2025 | Done    |
| Plan the respective actions    | 29/09/2025 | 26/10/2025 | Done    |
| Formalize code owners          | 27/10/2025 | 30/11/2025 | Done    |
| Integrate review methodologies |      _continuous_      ||         |
| Plan execution & coordination  |      _continuous_      ||         |
| Final report                   | 09/03/2026 | 30/03/2026 |         |

### Task: Import spdxtool into the base system

The SBOM initiative has matured and has been confirmed as a new key component,
required in the next release of FreeBSD. The original draft pull-request offered
for this project has been used by the SBOM initiative to validate the prototype,
in particular regarding the granularity of the SBOM files: it is now expected to
match the packages installed. This could still evolve, as the current
meta-information offered in the packages may be incomplete, incorrect, or
impossible to transcribe correctly at this level in an SBOM file.

The draft pull-request was documented further
[here](https://github.com/freebsd/freebsd-src/pull/1994#issuecomment-3896743965)
and
[here](https://github.com/freebsd/freebsd-src/pull/1994#issuecomment-3980704283).

Further integration work is now needed before this pull-request can land into
FreeBSD's src repository, as bomtool and spdxtool need to be built as part of
the toolchain in addition to being shipped in the default system: they are
necessary as native tools, even when cross-compiling. This is in addition to the
actual handling of the SBOM meta-data, and corresponding updates to the build
system.

### Task: Import the pkg package manager into the base system

After discussions between the release engineering team and developers of pkg, it
has become clear that importing pkg into the base system is indeed the way
forward. This is due in great part to the ongoing "pkgbase" migration from sets
to individual packages for the installation and maintenance of the base system.
Work has begun on this task, which is currently being planned like the current
procedure for vendor updates.

This is because the pace of development for pkg is necessarily decoupled from
that of the base system: packages are released every 3 months, and will require
fixes or features faster than the base system can offer them. For this reason,
pkg will gain the capability to delegate its operation to any updated version
installed as a package, as deemed necessary by the developers of pkg. This will
also replace the current bootstrapping system.

In practice, NetBSD already uses this mode of operation, which is believed to be
working well there.

