# FreeBSD Update - January 2026

## Immediate tasks

This month, the collaboration with the Software Bill of Materials (SBOM)
initiative continued:

- Additional confirmations of owners for third-party components
- Correction and enrichment of the database contents
- Added support for SPDX 3.0.1 (JSON-LD)
- Generating SPDX files for over 900 components in the base system
- Prepared the import of spdxtool (from pkgconf) into the base system

The database and tooling are still found in the
[alpha-omega-beach-cleaning](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/alpha-omega-beach-cleaning)
Git repository.

Collaboration is ongoing with the Open Regulatory Compliance Working Group (ORC
WG) as well.

## Timeline

The current timeline is as follows:
 
| Phase                          | Start date | End date   | Status  |
| ------------------------------ | ---------- | ---------- | ------- |
| Inventory of dependencies      | 25/08/2025 | 07/09/2025 | Done    |
| Security risk assessments      | 08/09/2025 | 21/09/2025 | Done    |
| Propose list of priorities     | 22/09/2025 | 28/09/2025 | Done    |
| Plan the respective actions    | 29/09/2025 | 26/10/2025 | Done    |
| Formalize code owners          | 27/10/2025 | 30/11/2025 | Done    |
| Integrate review methodologies |      _continuous_      ||         |
| Plan execution & coordination  |      _continuous_      ||         |
| Final report                   | 09/03/2026 | 30/03/2026 |         |

### Task: Inventory of dependencies

From the collaboration with the SBOM initiative, it became clear that the
inventory of dependencies really should not be limited to the third-party
software found in the project. The database now also refers internal components,
allowing more accurate and complete list of dependencies to be tracked in the
files generated in SBOM format.

The
[corresponding](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/alpha-omega-beach-cleaning/blob/main/dependencies.md)
[deliverables](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/alpha-omega-beach-cleaning/blob/main/security.md)
have been re-generated regularly from the [YAML
database](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/alpha-omega-beach-cleaning/blob/main/database.yml),
as per usual.

Over 900 individual components are now known in the database. The extent of the
granularity required is currently being determined, so this number could still
go up or down.

### Task: List of priorities

The list of priorities is stabilized, with the highest ranking components being:

1. (Git,) libfido2, OpenSSL, (pkg,) WireGuard, zlib, and ZFS (score: 4)
2. ACPI, BearSSL, Kerberos, LLVM, libcbor, Lua, OpenPAM, OpenSSH, and zstd
   (score: 3)

Git is a "ghost" dependency, which was added as a third-party component to the
database. While it is a mandatory component de facto for development, no
complete implementation has been imported in the base system.
The developers are expected to use a package instead (from the ports
collection).

There is an ongoing discussion whether to import Git into the base system and
when, and then which implementation it should be. [Got](https://gameoftrees.org)
has matured and could offer a basic but functional alternative to Git, with a
license more in line with the rest of the system.

The situation reminds that of the package manager,
[pkg](https://github.com/FreeBSD/pkg), a "ghost" dependency too, but managed by
the FreeBSD Project. It is hosted on GitHub, outside of the base system. While
its current deployment model seems to work well (binary download on first use)
it could make sense to import this project as well.

### Task: Plan the respective actions

The metrics proposed by the source management team (srcmgr@) remain relevant; as
a reminder:

* Version gap,
* Time since last import, (if not forked)
* Presence and re-use of a test suite,
* "Distance" from upstream (size of the patch...)

The initiative around the automation of version tracking has now reached a
blocker, and is stuck around 50 third-party components implemented out of 75.
The [CI/CD workflow on
GitHub](https://github.com/FreeBSDFoundation/alpha-omega-beach-cleaning/blob/main/.github/workflows/freebsdvm-go-ci_ubuntu-latest.yml)
is setup to run FreeBSD instead of Linux, allowing it to complete as intended.

This task is a strong candidate for more complete implementation in 2026.

### Task: Formalizing the code owners

The updated database and tooling have been presented to the respective code
owners identified, whom have all been contacted in December 2025.
Most have already confirmed or corrected their involvement.

Among the feedback collected, a suggestion was to add the tool developed to
FreeBSD's ports collection. However, the current consensus together with the
SBOM initiative is to rewrite the tool from Go to Lua, which would allow a
direct integration into FreeBSD's base system instead.

The database contents might gain from being distributed into the respective
`Makefile` files already describing the build, instead of the current solution.
This could avoid the dependency on `aobc-tool` in this context, at the cost of
making future design changes more difficult.

Regardless of its location, the database and corresponding tooling could then
become as essential brick of the system, not only for tracking dependencies but
also to facilitate compliance with the European Union's CRA regulation, for
every user of FreeBSD.
